INCLUDES

Course framework
Instructional
section
Sample exam
questions

AP French
Language
and Culture
®

COURSE AND EXAM DESCRIPTION

Effective
Fall 2024

AP French
Language
and Culture
®

COURSE AND EXAM DESCRIPTION

Effective
Fall 2024

AP COURSE AND EXAM DESCRIPTIONS ARE UPDATED PERIODICALLY
Please visit AP Central (apcentral.collegeboard.org) to determine whether a
more recent course and exam description is available.

What AP Stands For
®

Thousands of Advanced Placement teachers have contributed to the principles
articulated here. These principles are not new; they are, rather, a reminder of how AP
already works in classrooms nationwide. The following principles are designed to ensure
that teachers’ expertise is respected, required course content is understood, and that
students are academically challenged and free to make up their own minds.
1. AP
 standsforclarityandtransparency.Teachersandstudentsdeserveclear
expectations. The Advanced Placement Program makes public its course
frameworks and sample assessments. Confusion about what is permitted in the
classroom disrupts teachers and students as they navigate demanding work.

2. APisanunflinchingencounterwithevidence.APcoursesenablestudentstodevelop
as independent thinkers and to draw their own conclusions. Evidence and the
scientificmethodarethestartingplaceforconversationsinAPcourses.
3. AP
 opposescensorship.APisanimatedbyadeeprespectfortheintellectual
freedom of teachers and students alike. If a school bans required topics from their
AP courses, the AP Program removes the AP designation from that course and
its inclusion in the AP Course Ledger provided to colleges and universities. For
example, the concepts of evolution are at the heart of college biology, and a course
that neglects such concepts does not pass muster as AP Biology.
4. APopposesindoctrination.APstudentsareexpectedtoanalyzedifferent
perspectives from their own, and no points on an AP Exam are awarded for
agreementwithanyspecificviewpoint.APstudentsarenotrequiredtofeel
certain ways about themselves or the course content. AP courses instead develop
students’ abilities to assess the credibility of sources, draw conclusions, and make
up their own minds.

As the AP English Literature course description states: “AP students are not
expectedoraskedtosubscribetoanyonespecificsetofculturalorpoliticalvalues,
butareexpectedtohavethematuritytoanalyzeperspectivesdifferentfromtheir
ownandtoquestionthemeaning,purpose,oreffectofsuchcontentwithinthe
literary work as a whole.”

5. APcoursesfosteranopen-mindedapproachtothehistoriesandculturesof
differentpeoples.Thestudyofdifferentnationalities,cultures,religions,races,and
ethnicities is essential within a variety of academic disciplines. AP courses ground
such studies in primary sources so that students can evaluate experiences and
evidence for themselves.
6. EveryAPstudentwhoengageswithevidenceislistenedtoandrespected.
Students are encouraged to evaluate arguments but not one another. AP
classrooms respect diversity in backgrounds, experiences, and viewpoints. The
perspectives and contributions of the full range of AP students are sought and
considered. Respectful debate of ideas is cultivated and protected; personal
attacks have no place in AP.

7. APisachoiceforparentsandstudents.Parentsandstudentsfreelychooseto
enroll in AP courses. Course descriptions are available online for parents and
studentstoinformtheirchoice.Parentsdonotdefinewhichcollege-leveltopics
are suitable within AP courses; AP course and exam materials are crafted by
committeesofprofessorsandotherexperteducatorsineachfield.APcoursesand
exams are then further validated by the American Council on Education and studies
thatconfirmtheuseofAPscoresforcollegecreditsbythousandsofcollegesand
universities nationwide.
The AP Program encourages educators to review these principles with parents and
students so they know what to expect in an AP course. Advanced Placement is always
achoice,anditshouldbeaninformedone.APteachersshouldbegiventheconfidence
and clarity that once parents have enrolled their child in an AP course, they have agreed
to a classroom experience that embodies these principles.

© 2024 The Advanced Placement Program, AP, AP Central, and the acorn logo are registered trademarks
of the College Board. All other products and services may be trademarks of their respective owners. Visit
College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.

Contents
v Acknowledgments

1 About AP

4 AP Resources and Supports
6 About the AP French Language and Culture Course
6 College Course Equivalent
6 Prerequisites
COURSE FRAMEWORK
9 Introduction

10 Course Framework Components

15 Unit Guides
20 Using the Unit Guides
23 UNIT 1:FamiliesinDifferentSocieties
35 UNIT 2:TheInfluenceofLanguageandCultureonIdentity
47 UNIT 3:InfluencesofBeautyandArt
61 UNIT 4:HowScienceandTechnologyAffectOurLives
75 UNIT 5: Factors That Impact the Quality of Life
89 UNIT 6: Environmental, Political, and Societal Challenges
ACHIEVEMENT LEVEL DESCRIPTIONS
105 Introduction
INSTRUCTIONAL APPROACHES
127 Selecting and Using Course Materials
128 Instructional Strategies

141 Developing Course Skills
EXAM INFORMATION
153 Exam Overview

159 Sample Exam Questions
SCORING GUIDELINES
175 Question 1: Email Reply

178 Question 4: Cultural Comparison

THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.

Acknowledgments
Much of the work done on this and previous editions was informed by the
valuable input of Curriculum Development and Assessment committees.
College Board would like to thank Kris Climer, Franklin Road Academy,
Nashville, TN, and Deanna Scheffer, St. Augustine High School, St.
Augustine, FL, for their assistance with the development of this curriculum.

College Board Staff
Magali Doriac-Froehlig, Director, AP French Language and Culture
Stephen Johnson, Senior Director, World Languages Department Head
Dana Kopelman, Executive Director, AP Instruction and Assessment
Production
Aubrey Ludwig, Executive Director, AP English, Arts, and World Languages
Department Head
Daniel McDonough, Senior Director, AP Content and Assessment
Publications
Allison Thurber, Vice President, AP Curriculum and Assessment

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

﻿ V.1 | v
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.

About AP
The Advanced Placement® Program (AP®) enables
willing and academically prepared students to pursue
college-levelstudies—withtheopportunitytoearn
collegecredit,advancedplacement,orboth—while
still in high school. Through AP courses in 40 subjects,
each culminating in a challenging exam, students learn
to think critically, construct solid arguments, and see
manysidesofanissue—skillsthatpreparethemfor
college and beyond. Taking AP courses demonstrates
tocollegeadmissionofficersthatstudentshavesought
the most challenging curriculum available to them,
and research indicates that students who score a 3
or higher on an AP Exam typically experience greater
academic success in college and are more likely to
earnacollegedegreethannon-APstudents.Each
AP teacher’s syllabus is evaluated and approved by
faculty from some of the nation’s leading colleges and
universities, and AP Exams are developed and scored
by college faculty and experienced AP teachers. Most
four-yearcollegesanduniversitiesintheUnitedStates
grant credit, advanced placement, or both on the
basisofsuccessfulAPExamscores—morethan3,300
institutions worldwide annually receive AP scores.

AP Course Development
Inanongoingefforttomaintainalignmentwithbest
practicesincollege-levellearning,APcoursesand
examsemphasizechallenging,research-based
curricula aligned with higher education expectations.
Individual teachers are responsible for designing their
own curriculum for AP courses, selecting appropriate
college-levelreadings,assignments,andresources.
This course and exam description presents the content
and skills that are the focus of the corresponding
college course and that appear on the AP Exam. It also
organizesthecontentandskillsintoaseriesofunits
that represent a sequence found in widely adopted
college textbooks and that many AP teachers have
told us they follow in order to focus their instruction.
The intention of this publication is to respect teachers’
time and expertise by providing a roadmap that they
can modify and adapt to their local priorities and
preferences.Moreover,byorganizingtheAPcourse
content and skills into units, the AP Program is able
to provide teachers and students with free formative
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

assessments—ProgressChecks—thatteachers
can assign throughout the year to measure student
progress as they acquire content knowledge and
develop skills.

Enrolling Students: Access,
Opportunity, and Readiness
The AP Program welcomes all students willing to
challengethemselveswithcollege-levelcoursework
and career preparation. We strongly encourage
educators to invite students into AP classes,
including students from ethnic, racial, socioeconomic,
geographic, or other groups not broadly participating in
a school’s AP program. We believe that readiness for AP
is attainable, and that educators can expand readiness
byopeningaccesstoPre-APcoursework.Wecommit
tosupporteducatorsandcommunitiesintheirefforts
to make AP courses widely available, advancing
students in their plans for college and careers.

Offering AP Courses:
The AP Course Audit
The AP Program unequivocally supports the principle
that each school implements its own curriculum
that will enable students to develop the content
understandings and skills described in the course
framework.
While the unit sequence represented in this publication
is optional, the AP Program does have a short list of
curricular and resource requirements that must be
fulfilledbeforeaschoolcanlabelacourse“Advanced
Placement”or“AP.”SchoolswishingtoofferAP
courses must participate in the AP Course Audit, a
process through which AP teachers’ course materials
are reviewed by college faculty. The AP Course Audit
was created to provide teachers and administrators
with clear guidelines on curricular and resource
requirements for AP courses and to help colleges and
universities validate courses marked “AP” on students’
transcripts. This process ensures that AP teachers’
courses meet or exceed the curricular and resource
expectations that college and secondary school faculty
haveestablishedforcollege-levelcourses.
﻿ V.1 | 1
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

The AP Course Audit form is submitted by the AP teacher
and the school principal (or designated administrator) to
confirmawarenessandunderstandingofthecurricular
and resource requirements. A syllabus or course outline,
detailing how course requirements are met, is submitted
by the AP teacher for review by college faculty.
Please visit the AP Course Audit website for more
information to support the preparation and submission
of materials for the AP Course Audit.

How the AP Program
Is Developed
The scope of content for an AP course and exam is
derived from an analysis of hundreds of syllabi and
courseofferingsofcollegesanduniversities.Using
this research and data, a committee of college faculty
and expert AP teachers work within the scope of
the corresponding college course to articulate what
students should know and be able to do upon the
completion of the AP course. The resulting course
framework is the heart of this course and exam
description and serves as a blueprint of the content and
skills that can appear on an AP Exam.
The AP Test Development Committees are responsible
for developing each AP Exam, ensuring the exam
questions are aligned to the course framework. The AP
Exam development process is a multiyear endeavor; all
AP Exams undergo extensive review, revision, piloting,
and analysis to ensure that questions are accurate,
fair, and valid and that there is an appropriate spread of
difficultyacrossthequestions.
Committee members are selected to represent a variety
of perspectives and institutions (public and private,
small and large schools and colleges), and a range of
gender, racial/ethnic, and regional groups. A list of each
subject’s current AP Test Development Committee
members is available on AP Central®.
Throughout AP course and exam development, College
Board gathers feedback from various stakeholders
in both secondary schools and higher education
institutions. This feedback is carefully considered to
ensure that AP courses and exams are able to provide
studentswithacollege-levellearningexperienceand
theopportunitytodemonstratetheirqualificationsfor
advanced placement or college credit.

How AP Exams Are Scored
The exam scoring process, like the course and exam
development process, relies on the expertise of
bothAPteachersandcollegefaculty.Whilemultiple-
choicequestionsarescoredbymachine,thefreeresponsequestionsandthrough-courseperformance
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

assessments, as applicable, are scored by thousands
of college faculty and expert AP teachers. Most are
scored at the annual AP Reading, while a small portion
is scored online. All AP Readers are thoroughly trained,
and their work is monitored throughout the Reading
for fairness and consistency. In each subject, a highly
respected college faculty member serves as Chief
Faculty Consultant and, with the help of AP Readers
in leadership positions, maintains the accuracy of
thescoringstandards.Scoresonthefree-response
questions and performance assessments are weighted
andcombinedwiththeresultsofthecomputer-scored
multiple-choicequestions,andthisrawscoreis
converted into a composite AP score on a 1–5 scale.
AP Exams are notnorm-referencedorgradedona
curve.Instead,theyarecriterion-referenced,which
means that every student who meets the criteria for
an AP score of 2, 3, 4, or 5 will receive that score, no
matter how many students that is. The criteria for the
number of points students must earn on the AP Exam
toreceivescoresof3,4,or5—thescoresthatresearch
consistently validates for credit and placement
purposes—include:
§§ the number of points successful college students
earn when their professors administer AP Exam
questions to them;

§§ the number of points researchers have found to be
predictive that an AP student will succeed when
placedintoasubsequenthigher-levelcollege
course; and

§§ achievement-leveldescriptionsformulatedby
college faculty who review each AP Exam question.

Using and Interpreting AP Scores
The extensive work done by college faculty and
AP teachers in the development of the course and
exam and throughout the scoring process ensures
that AP Exam scores accurately represent students’
achievement in the equivalent college course. Frequent
and regular research studies establish the validity of AP
scores as follows:
Credit
Recommendation

College Grade
Equivalent

5

Extremelywellqualified

A

4

Wellqualified

A−, B+, B

3

Qualified

B−, C+, C

2

Possiblyqualified

n/a

1

No recommendation

n/a

AP Score

﻿ V.1 | 2
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

While colleges and universities are responsible for
setting their own credit and placement policies, most
private colleges and universities award credit and/
or advanced placement for AP scores of 3 or higher.
Additionally, most states in the U.S. have adopted
statewide credit policies that ensure college credit for
scores of 3 or higher at public colleges and universities.
Toconfirmaspecificcollege’sAPcredit/placement
policy, use the search engine available on the
AP Credit Policy Search page.

BECOMING AN AP READER

Each June, thousands of AP teachers and college
faculty members from around the world gather for
seven days in multiple locations to evaluate and score
thefree-responsesectionsoftheAPExams.Ninety-
eight percent of surveyed educators who took part in
the AP Reading say it was a positive experience.
There are many reasons to consider becoming an AP
Reader, including opportunities to:
§§ Bring positive changes to the classroom:
Surveys show that the vast majority of returning
APReaders—bothhighschoolandcollege
educators—makeimprovementstothewaythey
teach or score because of their experience at the
AP Reading.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

§ Gain in-depth understanding of AP Exam and AP
scoring standards: AP Readers gain exposure to
the quality and depth of the responses from the
entire pool of AP Exam takers, and thus are better
able to assess their students’ work in the classroom.

§§ Receive compensation: AP Readers are
compensated for their work during the Reading.
Expenses, lodging, and meals are covered for
Readers who travel.

§ Score from home: AP Readers have online
distributed scoring opportunities for certain
subjects. Check the AP Reader site for details.

§§ Earn Continuing Education Units (CEUs): AP
Readers earn professional development hours and
CEUs that can be applied to PD requirements by
states, districts, and schools.

How to Apply

Visit the Become an AP Reader site for eligibility
requirements and to start the application process.

﻿ V.1 | 3
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP Resources
and Supports
By completing a simple class selection process at the start of the school year, teachers and
students receive access to a robust set of classroom resources.

AP Classroom
AP Classroom is a dedicated online platform designed to support teachers and students
throughout their AP experience. The platform provides a variety of powerful resources and
toolstoprovideyearlongsupporttoteachersandstudents,offeringopportunitiestogiveand
get meaningful feedback on student progress.

UNIT GUIDES

Appearing in this publication and on AP Classroom, these planning guides outline all required
coursecontentandskills,organizedintocommonlytaughtunits.EachUnitGuidesuggests
asequenceandpacingofcontent,scaffoldsskillinstructionacrossunits,organizescontent
into topics, and provides tips on taking the AP Exam.

PROGRESS CHECKS

Formative AP questions for every unit provide feedback to students on the areas where they
need to focus. Available online, Progress Checks measure knowledge and skills through
multiple-choicequestionswithrationalestoexplaincorrectandincorrectanswers,andfreeresponse questions with scoring information. Because the Progress Checks are formative,
theresultsoftheseassessmentscannotbeusedtoevaluateteachereffectivenessorassign
lettergradestostudents,andanysuchmisusesaregroundsforlosingschoolauthorizationto
offerAPcourses.*

REPORTS

Reportsprovidesteacherswithaone-stopshopforstudentresultsonallassignmenttypes,
including Progress Checks. Teachers can view class trends and see where students struggle
with content and skills that will be assessed on the AP Exam. Students can view their own
progress over time to improve their performance before the AP Exam.

QUESTION BANK

The Question Bank is a searchable library of all AP questions that teachers use to build
custom practice for their students. Teachers can create and assign assessments with
formative topic questions or questions from practice or released AP Exams.
Class Section Setup and Enrollment

§ Teachers and students sign in to or create their College Board accounts.

§ TeachersconfirmthattheyhaveaddedthecoursetheyteachtotheirAPCourseAudit
account and have had it approved by their school’s administrator.

§ Teachers or AP coordinators, depending on who the school has decided is responsible,
set up class sections so students can access AP resources and have exams ordered on
their behalf.

§ Students join class sections with a join code provided by their teacher or AP coordinator.

§ Studentswillbeaskedforadditionalinformationuponjoiningtheirfirstclasssection.
* Toreportmisuses,pleasecall,877-274-6474(International:212-632-1781).

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

﻿ V.1 | 4
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Instructional
Model
Integrating AP resources throughout the course can help students develop skills and
conceptual understandings. The instructional model outlined below shows possible ways to
incorporate AP resources into the classroom.

Plan
Teachers may consider the following approaches as they plan their instruction before
teaching each unit.
§ Review the overview at the start of each Unit Guide to identify essential questions,
conceptual understandings, and skills for each unit.

§ Use the Unit at a Glance table to identify related topics that build toward a common
understanding, and then plan appropriate pacing for students.

§§ Identify useful strategies in the Instructional Approaches section to help teach the
concepts and skills.

Teach
When teaching, supporting resources could be used to build students’ conceptual
understanding and their mastery of skills.
§§ Use the topic pages in the Unit Guides to identify the required content.

§§ Integratethecontentwithaskill,consideringanyappropriatescaffolding.

§§ Employanyoftheinstructionalstrategiespreviouslyidentified.

§§ Use the available resources, including AP Daily, on the topic pages to bring a variety of

§ assets into the classroom.

Assess
Teachers can measure student understanding of the content and skills covered in the unit and
provide actionable feedback to students.
§§ As you teach each topic, use AP Classroom to assign student Topic Questions as a way
to continuously check student understanding and provide just in time feedback.

§ At the end of each unit, use AP Classroom to assign students Progress Checks, as
homeworkoranin-classtask.

§ Providequestion-levelfeedbacktostudentsthroughanswerrationales;provideunit-and
skill-levelformativefeedbackusingReports.

§§ Create additional practice opportunities using the Question Bank and assign them
through AP Classroom.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

﻿ V.1 | 5
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

About the AP French
Language and Culture Course
The AP French Language and Culture course
emphasizescommunication(understandingandbeing
understood by others) by applying interpersonal,
interpretive,andpresentationalskillsinreal-life
situations. This includes vocabulary usage, language
control, communication strategies, and cultural
awareness. The AP French Language and Culture
coursestrivesnottooveremphasizegrammatical
accuracy at the expense of communication. To best
facilitate the study of language and culture, the course
is taught almost exclusively in French.
The AP French Language and Culture course
engages students in an exploration of culture in both
contemporary and historical contexts. The course
develops students’ awareness and appreciation
of cultural products (e.g., tools, books, music, laws,
conventions, institutions), practices (patterns of social
interactions within a culture), and perspectives (values,
attitudes, and assumptions).

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

College Course Equivalent
The AP French Language and Culture Course is
approximatelyequivalenttoanupper-intermediate
college-levelcourseinFrenchlanguageand culture.

Prerequisites
There are no prerequisites; however, students
are typically in their fourth year of high school–
levelFrench languagestudy.Inthecaseofnative
orheritage speakers,theremaybeadifferent
pathway of studyleadingtothiscourse.

﻿ V.1 | 6
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

Course
Framework

Introduction
In today’s global community, competence in more than one language is
an essential part of communication and cultural understanding. Study of
another language not only provides individuals with the ability to express
thoughts and ideas for their own purposes but also gives them access to
perspectives and knowledge that are only available through the language
and culture. Advanced language learning offers social, cultural, academic,
and workplace benefits that will serve students throughout their lives. The
proficiencies acquired through the study of languages and literatures endow
language learners with cognitive, analytical, and communication skills that
carry over into many other areas of their academic studies.
Thethreemodesofcommunication—Interpretive,
Interpersonal,andPresentational—definedinthe
World Readiness Standards for Learning Languages,
are foundational to the AP French Language and
Culture course. The AP course provides students with
opportunitiestodemonstratetheirproficiencyineach
of the three modes in the Intermediate to Advanced
range, as described in the ACTFL Performance
Descriptors for Language Learners. As such, the
course has been designed to provide advanced high
school students with a rich and rigorous opportunity
tostudythelanguageandcultureoftheFrenchspeaking world.
The AP French Language and Culture course
takesaholisticapproachtolanguageproficiency
andrecognizesthecomplexinterrelatednessof
comprehension and comprehensibility, vocabulary

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

usage, language control, communication strategies,
and cultural awareness. Students should learn
language structures in context and use them to
conveymeaning.Instandards-basedworldlanguage
classrooms, the instructional focus is on function
and not the examination of irregularity and complex
grammatical paradigms about the target language.
Language structures should be addressed according
to how they serve the communicative task and not
as an end goal unto themselves. The AP French
Language and Culture course strives to promote
bothfluencyandaccuracyinlanguageuseand
avoid overemphasis on grammatical accuracy at the
expense of communication. In order to best facilitate
the study of language and culture, the course should
be taught primarily in the target language.

Course Framework V.1 | 9
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Course Framework
Components
Overview
This course framework provides a clear and detailed description of the course requirements necessary for
studentsuccess.Theframeworkspecifieswhatstudentsmustknow,beabletodo,andunderstandtoqualifyfor
college credit and/or placement.

The course framework includes the following essential components:
1

SKILLS

At the core of the AP French Language and Culture course are course skills identifying what students
should know and be able to do to succeed in the course. Students should develop and apply the
described skills on a regular basis over the span of the course.
2

THEMES

The course is based on six required course themes that help teachers integrate language, content,
and culture into a series of lessons and activities. Within each theme are recommended contexts
and overarching essential questions that engage students, guide their classroom investigations, and
promote the use of language in a variety of contexts.
3

MODES

Foundational to the course are the three modes of communication: Interpretive, Interpersonal, and
Presentational,asdefinedinACTFL’sWorld Readiness Standards for Learning Languages. Throughout
the course, students demonstrate their abilities in the interpretive mode by engaging with written, print,
visual, audiovisual, and audio texts; in the interpersonal mode by speaking with and writing to others; and
in the presentational mode by speaking to and writing for an audience.
4

TASK MODELS

Each unit in the course features several of the task models that students will encounter on the exam,
whichbuildindifficultyandcomplexityovertimetothelevelthatmatchestheexam’sexpectations.These
taskmodelsincludeninedifferenttypesofstimuliwithquestionsthataddressinterpretiveprintandaudio
communication,andfourfree-responsetasksthataddresstheinterpersonalandpresentationalmodes.

Course Skills
The following table lays out the basic language and communication skills that students are expected to develop in the
course. As shown later, each skill is further broken out into concrete learning objectives, which are described in the
section on Unit Guides on p. 17.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 10
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 11
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

Make interdisciplinary
and cultural connections.

Comprehend written,
audio, audiovisual, and
visual text (text, pictures,
and numbers).

1.B

Describe data.

1.A Describe the
literal meaning of
the text.

2.B Make
connections in and
across disciplines.

2.A Make cultural
connections.

Make
Connections 2

Comprehend
Text 1

SKILLS

Skill Category 2

Skill Category 1

3.B Interpretthe
meaning of a text.

3.A Interpret the
distinguishing
features of a text.

Interpret the content
of written or audio
text (words).

Interpret
Text 3

Skill Category 3

Course Skills

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

4.B Use words
appropriate for a
given context.

4.A Determine the
meaning of familiar
and unfamiliar
words.

Make meanings from
words and expressions.

Make
Meanings 4

Skill Category 4

6.A Understand
and apply
appropriate
communication
strategies in
interpersonal
writing.
6.B Understand
and apply
appropriate and
varied syntactical
expressions in
interpersonal
writing.

5.B Understand
and apply
appropriate and
varied syntactical
expressions in
interpersonal
speaking.

Communicate
interpersonally by
writing to others.

Write to
Others 6

Skill Category 6

5.A Understand
and apply
appropriate
communication
strategies in
interpersonal
speaking.

Communicate
interpersonally by
speaking with others.

Speak to
Others 5

Skill Category 5

8.A Plan and
research an
issue or topic for
presentational
writing.

Communicate through
written presentations.

Present in
Writing 8

Skill Category 8

7.B Useappropriate 8.B Use appropriate
writing strategies to
vocal and visual
communicate an idea
strategies to
in presentational
communicate
writing.
an idea in
presentational
8.C Understand
speaking.
and apply
7.C Use appropriate appropriate and
varied syntactical
language and
expressions in
vocabulary for the
presentational
intended audience
writing.
in presentational
speaking.
8.D Express
7.D Express a
a perspective
with details and
perspective with
details and examples examples to
illustrate an opinion
to illustrate an
or idea in written
opinion or idea
presentations.
in presentational
speaking.

7.A Plan and
research an
issue or topic for
presentational
speaking.

Communicate through
spoken presentations.

Present
Orally 7

Skill Category 7

Course Themes
To provide context and content for students to develop their skills in the modes of communication, the course
takes a thematic approach. There are six required course themes: Families and Communities, Personal and Public
Identities, Beauty and Aesthetics, Science and Technology, Contemporary Life, and Global Challenges.

Families and
Communities

Global
Challenges

Personal and
Public Identities

Contemporary
Life

Beauty and
Aesthetics

Science and
Technology
Withineachofthesethemes,therearefivetosevenrecommendedcontexts.Thecourseisorganized
thematically into six units. Each unit targets a primary theme but also connects to additional recommended
contexts for those themes. Teaching to multiple themes in every unit ensures a rich curriculum that will
spiral,as thethemesarerevisitedthroughavarietyoflensesthroughoutthecourse.Thisallowsstudentsto
experience thestudyoflanguageandcultureinavarietyofauthenticandengagingwaysandallowsteachersto
considertheinterestsandneedsoftheirstudentswhendesigninginstruction.Whileteachersmayorganizethe
course thematically in any way they choose, following the recommended course design in the units described
belowensuresthatalltherequiredcoursethemesareaddressedmultipletimesinascaffoldedmanner.

AP French Language and Culture
Recommended Contexts

s

Families and
Communities
res
ve

Personal and
Public Identities

exuality
ty

Beauty and
Aesthetics
rch Topics
overies and Inventions

rforming Arts

Science and
Technology

ty

rtising and Marketing

Contemporary
Life

rts

rsity Issues
assage
ronmental Issues

Global
Challenges

avel

ty
ace and War

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 12
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

ESSENTIAL QUESTIONS

Related to the themes are essential questions designed to spark curiosity and encourage students to investigate
andexpressdifferentviewsonreal-worldissues,makeconnectionstootherdisciplines,andcompareaspectsof
the target culture(s) to their own. Essential questions also lend themselves well to interdisciplinary inquiry, asking
students to apply skills and perspectives across content areas while working with content from language, literature,
andculturesoftheFrench-speakingworld.ExamplesofessentialquestionsappearintheUnitGuideopeners.

Course Modes
As students work with course themes and consider essential questions, they do so while engaging in the three modes
ofcommunication—Interpretive,Interpersonal,andPresentational.Thedevelopmentofskillsineachofthesemodes
forms the core of the units, as students build skills in listening, reading, speaking, and writing tasks of increasing levels
of complexity as they work through the course. Students are expected to build skills in the following areas:
§ Audio, Visual, and Audiovisual Interpretive Communication;

§ Written and Print Interpretive Communication;

§ Spoken Interpersonal Communication;

§ Written Interpersonal Communication;

§ Spoken Presentational Communication;

§ Written Presentational Communication.

Course Task Models
As students work with the modes of communication listed above, they practice various task models that
familiarizethemwithwhatwillbeontheexamwhilehelpingthembuildlinguisticskillsandculturalcompetencies.

Task Model Type

Mode

Promotional material

Interpretive – print source

Literary text

Interpretive – print source

Article and chart

Interpretive – print sources

Letter

Interpretive – print source

Audio report and article

Interpretive – audio and print sources

Conversation and chart

Interpretive – audio and print sources

Interview

Interpretive – audio source

Instructions

Interpretive – audio source

Presentation

Interpretive – audio source

Email reply

Interpersonal – written

Argumentative essay

Presentational – written

Conversation

Interpersonal – spoken

Cultural comparison

Presentational – spoken

More complex tasks, such as the cultural comparison or the argumentative essay, are taught incrementally so
thatstudentsdevelopskillsovertimeandthroughpracticebeforeengagingwithafull-taskmodel.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 13
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.

AP FRENCH
LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

Unit
Guides
Introduction
Thiscourseisorganizedintosixunitsthatarebasedonrequiredthemes,
which creates an interesting, meaningful context in which to explore a
variety of language and cultural concepts in the interpretive, interpersonal,
and presentational modes. The themes in each unit help teachers integrate
language, content, and culture into an interrelated series of lessons and
activities that promote the use of the language in a variety of contexts.
This unit structure respects new AP teachers’ time by providing one
possible sequence they can adopt or modify rather than having to
buildfromscratch.AnadditionalbenefitisthattheseunitsenabletheAP
Programtoprovideinterestedteacherswithformativeassessments—
theProgressChecks—thattheycanassigntheirstudentsattheendof
each unit to gauge progress toward success on the AP Exam. However,
experiencedAPteacherswhoaresatisfiedwiththeircurrentcourse
organizationandexamresultsshouldfeelnopressuretoadoptthese
units, whichcompriseanoptionalsequenceforthiscourse.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 15
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Skill Categories and Learning Objectives
At the core of the AP French Language and Culture course are learning objectives that identify
what students should know and be able to do across the three modes of communication. The
interpretive mode is divided into four skill categories with underlying learning objectives. There are
two skill categories associated with the interpersonal mode and two with the presentational mode.
Note that there are also Achievement Level Descriptions (ALDs), which describe the degree to
which student performance meets the skill categories articulated for the course and exam. For
a comprehensive look at the course ALDs, see the section “AP French Language and Culture
Achievement Level Descriptions” on p. 105.
The table that follows on pp. 17–19 shows all eight skill categories with their associated skills and
the learning objectives that will help students develop those skills.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 16
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

Skills and Learning Objectives
Skill Category 1

Skill Category 2

Skill Category 3

Comprehend Text 1 Make Connections 2 Interpret Text 3
Comprehend written, audio,
audiovisual, and visual text.
#.A

Make interdisciplinary and
cultural connections.

Interpret the content of
written or audio text.

2.A Make cultural
connections.

3.A Interpret the
distinguishing features
of a text.

Skill Category 4

Make Meanings 4
Make meanings from words
and expressions.

Skills

#.A.1 Learning Objectives

1.A Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.1: Identify the main idea.
1.A.2: Identify supporting/
relevant details.

1.A.3: Retellorsummarize
information in narrative form.

1.A.4: Use sources to
enhance comprehension.
1.B

Describe data.

1.B.1: Identify and describe
patterns and trends in data.
1.B.2: Describe data from a
table, chart, graph, map, or
infographic.

2.A.1: Identify and/or describe
content andconnections
among cultural topics.

2.A.2: Explain how data from a
graph or table illustrate cultural
topicsor phenomena.
2.A.3: Explain how information
from a text connects or relates
to the target cultural topics or
phenomena.

2.A.4: Infer cultural information
from a text.

2.B Make connections in and
across disciplines.

2.B.1: Identify and/or describe
content and connections
among interdisciplinary topics.

2.B.2: Explain how data from
a graph or table illustrate
interdisciplinary topics or
phenomena.

2.B.3: Explain how information
from a text connects or relates
to interdisciplinary topics or
phenomena.

3.A.1: Identify the
intended audience.
3.A.2: Identify the
purpose.

3.A.3: Identify and/or
describe the point(s)
of view, perspective(s),
tone,or attitude.
3.A.4: Identify
organizingand/or
rhetorical structures
and/or strategies.

3.B Interpret the
meaning of a text.

3.B.1: Identify and/or
describe similarities
and/ordifferences
amongdifferenttypes
of texts.

4.A Determine the
meaning of familiar and
unfamiliar words.

4.A.1: Determine the
meaning of a variety of
vocabulary. (not assessed
on Exam)

4.A.2: Deduce the meaning
of unfamiliar words or
expressions.

4.B Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of
vocabulary in written and
spoken communication.
4.B.2: Explain and use
idiomatic and culturally
authentic expressions.

3.B.2: Infer
implied meanings
through context.

2.B.4: Infer interdisciplinary
information from a text.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 17
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

Skills and Learning Objectives (cont’d)
Skill Category 5

Skill Category 6

Speak to Others 5

Write to Others 6

Communicate interpersonally
by speaking with others.
#.A

Communicate interpersonally
by writing to others.

Skills

#.A.1 Learning Objectives

Understand and apply appropriate communication
strategies in interpersonal speaking.
5.A

5.A.1: Initiate, maintain, and close spoken exchanges.

5.A.2: Comprehend an interlocutor’s message in spoken
exchanges.
5.A.3: Provide and obtain relevant information in spoken
exchanges.

5.A.4: Use appropriate register and greeting for the intended
target culture audience in spoken exchanges.
5.A.5: Use pronunciation that is comprehensible when
interacting with speakers of the target language in spoken
exchanges.

5.A.6: Useeffectiveintonationpatterns,pacing,anddelivery
when interacting with speakers of the target language in spoken
exchanges.
5.A.7: Use communication strategies, such as circumlocution,
requestingclarification,askingforrepetition,andparaphrasing,
to maintain spoken exchanges.

5.B Understand and apply appropriate and varied
syntactical expressions in interpersonal speaking.

5.B.1: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in spoken
exchanges.

5.B.2: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices in
spoken exchanges.
5.B.3: Comprehend and produce simple, compound, and
complex sentences in a variety of time frames in spoken
exchanges.

6.A Understand and apply appropriate communication
strategies in interpersonal writing.

6.A.1: Initiate, maintain, and close written exchanges.

6.A.2: Provide and obtain relevant information in written
exchanges.
6.A.3: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in written
exchanges.

6.A.4: Use register appropriate for the intended target
culture audience in written exchanges.

6.A.5: Use communication strategies such as
circumlocution,requestingclarification,andparaphrasingto
maintain written exchanges.

6.B Understand and apply appropriate and varied
syntactical expressions in interpersonal writing.

6.B.1: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinwrittenexchanges.
6.B.2: Comprehend and produce simple, compound, and
complex sentences in a variety of time frames in written
exchanges.

6.B.3: Use standard conventions of the written language
(e.g.,capitalization,orthography,accents,punctuation)in
written exchanges.

6.B.4: Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninwrittenexchanges.(notassessed
on Exam)

5.B.4: Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninspokenexchanges.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 18
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

Skills and Learning Objectives (cont’d)
Skill Category 7

Skill Category 8

Present Orally 7

Present in Writing 8

Communicate through
spoken presentations.
#.A

Communicate through
written presentations.

Skills

#.A.1 Learning Objectives

7.A Plan and research an issue or topic for presentational
speaking.

8.A Plan and research an issue or topic for presentational
writing.

7.A.2: Use research strategies to gather information and
evidence for inclusion in spoken presentations.

8.A.2: Use research strategies to gather information and
evidence for inclusion in written presentations.

7.A.1: Use a process to plan spoken presentations.

7.B Use appropriate vocal and visual strategies to
communicate an idea in presentational speaking.

7.B.1: Produce spoken presentations in the appropriate
register with an introduction, development of topic, and
conclusion.

7.B.2: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinspokenpresentations.
7.B.3: Use pronunciation in spoken presentations that is
comprehensible to speakers of the target language.

7.B.4: Useeffectiveintonationpatterns,pacing,anddelivery
in spoken presentations.

7.B.5: Use communication strategies such as circumlocution
and paraphrasing to maintain spoken presentations.

7.C Use appropriate language and vocabulary for the
intended audience in presentational speaking.

7.C.1: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in spoken
presentations.

7.C.2: Produce simple, compound, and complex sentences in
a variety of time frames in spoken presentations.
7.C.3: Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninspokenpresentations.

7.D Express a perspective with details and examples to
illustrate an opinion or idea in presentational speaking.

7.D.1: Explain ideas and opinions with examples in spoken
presentations.

7.D.2: Compare features (including products, practices, and
perspectives) of target cultural communities to those of the
student’s own community in spoken presentations.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

8.A.1: Use a process to plan written presentations.

8.B Use appropriate writing strategies to communicate an
idea in presentational writing.

8.B.1: Produce written presentations in the appropriate
register with an introduction, development of topic, and
conclusion.

8.B.2: Use communication strategies, such as circumlocution
and paraphrasing to maintain written presentations.

8.C Understand and apply appropriate and varied
syntactical expressions in presentational writing.

8.C.1: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinwrittenpresentations.
8.C.2: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in written
presentations.

8.C.3: Produce simple, compound, and complex sentences in
a variety of time frames in written presentations.
8.C.4: Use standard conventions of the written language
(e.g.,capitalization,orthography,accents,punctuation)in
written presentations.
8.C.5: Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrors
and attemptself-correctioninwrittenpresentations.
(not assessed on Exam)

8.D Express a perspective with details and examples to
illustrate an opinion or idea in written presentations.

8.D.1: Explain ideas and opinions with examples in written
presentations.
8.D.2: Integrate information from sources and cite them
appropriately in written presentations.

Course Framework V.1 | 19
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Using the Unit Guides
UNIT OPENERS
UNIT

1

Developing Understanding provides an overview that
contextualizesandsituatesthethemeoftheunitwithinthe
scope of the course.

~19–21 CLASS PERIODS

Families in
Different Societies

The Essential Questions arethought-provokingquestionsthat
motivate students and inspire inquiry.

Developing Understanding
ESSENTIAL
QUESTIONS
§ What constitutes
a family in Frenchspeaking societies? /
Qu’est-ce qui constitue
une famille dans le
monde francophone?

§ What are some
important aspects of
family values and family
life in French-speaking
societies? / Quels sont
quelques aspects
importants de la vie de
famille et des valeurs
familiales dans le monde
francophone?

§ What challenges do
families face in today’s
world? / Quels sont
les défis auxquels les
familles font face dans le
monde d’aujourd’hui?

Unit 1 explores themes related to families in French-speaking communities that provide
a meaningful context for students in which to acquire and develop a variety of language
and cultural concepts. While the primary focus will be on the theme of Families and
Communities, teachers should interweave the themes of Personal and Public Identities,
Contemporary Life, and Global Challenges by incorporating recommended contexts from
these themes. For example, students could:
§ explore how families shape values and traditions, as well as personal beliefs and
personal interests.

§ examine the challenges faced by families, such as access to education and jobs.

§ consider the evolving concept and role of families in contemporary societies.

Using a thematic approach helps teachers to integrate language, content, and culture into
lessons that build skills in the three modes of communication—interpretive, interpersonal,
and presentational. The development of skills in each of these modes forms the core of this
and all subsequent units.

Suggested Themes

Recommended Contexts

Families and Communities /
La famille et la communauté

Personal and Public Identities / La quête de soi
Alienation and Assimilation / L’aliénation et
l’assimilation
Multiculturalism / Le pluriculturalisme
Beliefs and Values / Les croyances et les systèmes de
valeurs

Personal and Public
Identities / La quête de soi

Alienation and Assimilation / L’aliénation et
l’assimilation
Multiculturalism / Le pluriculturalisme
Beliefs and Values / Les croyances et les systèmes de
valeurs

Contemporary Life / La vie
contemporaine

Rites of Passage / Les rites de passage
Holidays and Celebrations / Les fêtes
Education / L’éducation et l’enseignement
Housing and Shelter / Le logement

Global Challenges / Les
défis mondiaux

Diversity Issues / La tolérance
Economic Issues / L’économie
Human Rights / Les droits de l’être humain

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

UNIT

1

Students build skills in interpreting written and print texts
by reading promotional materials and letters. In this unit,
students practice:
§ identifying main ideas and relevant details

§ identifying audience, purpose, and point of view

§ identifying and describing content and connections
among cultural topics

§ explaining how data from a graph or table illustrate
cultural topics or phenomena

§ explaining how information from a text connects or relates
to the target culture’s topics or phenomena

In this unit, students develop visual literacy by
comprehending and interpreting data from a chart, table,
graph, or infographic. They also learn to comprehend
and interpret information through audio and audiovisual
sources. Through the authentic sources in this unit, students
acquire a variety of vocabulary related to the unit’s topics
and themes.
Practice in the interpretive mode prepares students to
engage in the interpersonal and presentational modes:
§ Listening to and deconstructing recorded conversations
prepares students to initiate, maintain, and close
spontaneous conversations in the appropriate register.

§ Reading and deconstructing letters helps students
develop skills needed to write and respond to email.

§ Using cultural information acquired in Unit 1 through
charts and other sources, students deliver a oneminute presentation discussing an aspect of a target
community’s culture. This presentation prepares
them to use appropriate vocal and visual strategies to
communicate ideas in presentational speaking.

Preparing for the AP Exam
The course requires students to apply their knowledge
and demonstrate their skills in a variety of eal-world
scenarios. Throughout the course, students build
vocabulary in contexts related to course themes. Instead
of relying on isolated vocabulary lists, teachers do better
to focus on students’ acquisition of contextualized
vocabulary through authentic sources. To improve
students’ success in interpreting charts and visuals,
teachers can actively teach the vocabulary found in
such visuals and should help students to understand
how numerical concepts are presented in French (for
example: 0,7%).

| Course Framework V.1

Recommended Contexts provide possible topics that could
be addressed in the units to help students build language and
cultural skills.

| 25

Families in Different Societies

Building Course Skills

26

Course Framework V.1

Suggested Themes provide connections to the unit’s primary
and secondary themes to enrich the course.

In this unit, students encounter practice multiple-choice
questions associated with promotional materials, letters,
conversations, and charts; tasks presented in the format
students will see on the AP Exam. Consistent exposure to
these will build students’ skills and helps them to prepare for
the exam.

Building Course Skills describesspecificskillsthatare
appropriate to focus on in the unit.
Preparing for the AP Exam provides helpful tips and common
studentchallengesidentifiedfrompriorexamdata.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – MULTIPLE CHOICE

§ Students sometimes struggle to understand the cultural
nuances in promotional materials, so teachers can
explicitly point out and explain cultural references within
the sources.

§ Early in the course, students often struggle to interpret
information in charts and graphs because they
don’t know the vocabulary. Teachers should present
vocabulary that frequently appears in charts and graphs,
such as percentage, rate, increase, decrease, trends,
amounts, etc.

In this unit and in those following, students also engage
with some free-response tasks that will help build their
understanding and skills for the AP Exam. Students practice
conversation and email tasks and build skills toward the
cultural comparison task by completing a short cultural
presentation about a French-speaking community.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – FREE RESPONSE

§ Students find it challenging to complete the conversation
task if they are not familiar with the format and have
not practiced and received feedback throughout the
school year. To build students’ skills and confidence in this
task, teachers can provide frequent in-class practice that:
◆
◆

familiarizes students with the conversation outline.

encourages students to brainstorm possible ways to
address each prompt.

§ For the email task, students may not complete all the
required elements given in the instructions. Teachers
should make sure that students address all the
following elements:
◆

Provide a greeting and closing.

◆

Answer two questions.

◆
◆

Use the formal register.

Request more information.

§ Early in the course, students find it challenging to
complete a cultural comparison, so students need
to build up to this task. Students often find it difficult
to make comparisons, so in this unit they focus on
presenting cultural information about a French-speaking
community, to gain confidence in presenting in French.
Throughout the unit, teachers should ensure students
make note of new cultural information they encounter.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 20
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Using the Unit Guides
STIMULUS/TASK MODEL PAGES
UNIT

1

Families in Different Societies

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Promotional Material

MODE: WRITTEN AND PRINT INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text (text,
pictures, and
numbers)

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.1: Identify the main idea.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.1: Identify the intended audience.

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.A: Determine the
meaning of familiar and
unfamiliar words.

4.A.1: Determine the meaning of a variety of vocabulary.

1.A.2: Identify supporting/relevant details.

3.A.2: Identify the purpose.

4.A.2: Deduce the meaning of unfamiliar words or
expressions.

Task Models in each of the three modes can be practiced in
classandthroughoutthecoursetofamiliarizestudentswith
expectations for the exam while building language skills and
cultural competencies.
Learning Objectivesdefinewhatastudentshouldknow
and be able to do to succeed in the course. These objectives
outline expectations of student abilities across the interpretive,
interpersonal, and presentational modes of communication.
Teacher Talkoffershelpfultipsforworkingwithataskmodel.

TEACHER TALK
§ Select sources (websites, various types of ads, announcements) focused on topics related to this unit.

§ Have students predict what the source will be about based on the title and any accompanying visuals.

§ Preview vocabulary in the context of authentic sources; select and present key vocabulary prior to presenting
the source.
28

| Course Framework V.1

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 21
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.

AP FRENCH
LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

UNIT 1

Families in
Different
Societies

~19–21
CLASSPERIODS

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 23
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Remember to go to AP Classroom
to assign students the online
Progress Check for this unit.

Whether assigned as homework or
completed in class, the Progress
Check provides each student with
immediate feedback related to this
unit’scontentand skills.

Progress Check 1
Multiple-choice: ~15 questions
Free-response: 3 questions
§ Email Reply

§ Conversation

§ Cultural Presentation

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 24
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

1

~19–21 CLASS PERIODS

Families in
Different Societies
Developing Understanding
ESSENTIAL
QUESTIONS
§§ What constitutes
afamilyinFrenchspeaking societies? /
Qu’est-ce qui constitue
une famille dans le
monde francophone?

§ What are some
important aspects of
family values and family
lifeinFrench-speaking
societies? / Quels sont
quelques aspects
importants de la vie de
famille et des valeurs
familiales dans le monde
francophone?

§ What challenges do
families face in today’s
world? / Quels sont
les défis auxquels les
familles font face dans le
monde d’aujourd’hui?

Unit1exploresthemesrelatedtofamiliesinFrench-speakingcommunitiesthatprovide
a meaningful context for students in which to acquire and develop a variety of language
and cultural concepts. While the primary focus will be on the theme of Families and
Communities, teachers should interweave the themes of Personal and Public Identities,
Contemporary Life, and Global Challenges by incorporating recommended contexts from
these themes. For example, students could:
§ explore how families shape values and traditions, as well as personal beliefs and
personal interests.

§ examine the challenges faced by families, such as access to education and jobs.

§ consider the evolving concept and role of families in contemporary societies.

Using a thematic approach helps teachers to integrate language, content, and culture into
lessonsthatbuildskillsinthethreemodesofcommunication—interpretive,interpersonal,
and presentational. The development of skills in each of these modes forms the core of this
and all subsequent units.

Suggested Themes

Recommended Contexts

Families and Communities /
La famille et la communauté

Personal and Public Identities / La quête de soi
Alienation and Assimilation / L’aliénation et
l’assimilation
Multiculturalism / Le pluriculturalisme
Beliefs and Values / Les croyances et les systèmes de
valeurs

Personal and Public
Identities / La quête de soi

Alienation and Assimilation / L’aliénation et
l’assimilation
Multiculturalism / Le pluriculturalisme
Beliefs and Values / Les croyances et les systèmes de
valeurs

Contemporary Life / La vie
contemporaine

Rites of Passage / Les rites de passage
Holidays and Celebrations / Les fêtes
Education / L’éducation et l’enseignement
Housing and Shelter / Le logement

Global Challenges / Les
défis mondiaux

Diversity Issues / La tolérance
Economic Issues / L’économie
Human Rights / Les droits de l’être humain

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 25
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

1

Families in Different Societies

Building Course Skills
Students build skills in interpreting written and print texts
by reading promotional materials and letters. In this unit,
students practice:
§§ identifying main ideas and relevant details;

§§ identifying audience, purpose, and point of view;

§§ identifying and describing content and connections
among cultural topics;

§§ explaining how data from a graph or table illustrate
cultural topics or phenomena; and

§§ explaining how information from a text connects or relates
to the target culture’s topics or phenomena.

In this unit, students develop visual literacy by
comprehending and interpreting data from a chart, table,
graph, or infographic. They also learn to comprehend
and interpret information through audio and audiovisual
sources. Through the authentic sources in this unit, students
acquire avarietyofvocabularyrelatedtotheunit’stopics
and themes.
Practice in the interpretive mode prepares students to
engage in the interpersonal and presentational modes:
§§ Listening to and deconstructing recorded conversations
prepares students to initiate, maintain, and close
spontaneous conversations in the appropriate register.

§§ Reading and deconstructing letters helps students
develop skills needed to write and respond to email.

§ Using cultural information acquired in Unit 1 through
chartsandothersources,studentsdeliveraoneminute presentation discussing an aspect of a target
community’s culture. This presentation prepares
them to use appropriate vocal and visual strategies to
communicate ideas in presentational speaking.

Preparing for the AP Exam
The course requires students to apply their knowledge
anddemonstratetheirskillsinavarietyofreal-world
scenarios. Throughout the course, students build
vocabulary in contexts related to course themes. Instead
of relying on isolated vocabulary lists, teachers do better
tofocusonstudents’acquisitionofcontextualized
vocabulary through authentic sources. To improve
students’ success in interpreting charts and visuals,
teachers can actively teach the vocabulary found in
such visuals and should help students to understand
how numerical concepts are presented in French (for
example: 0,7%).

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Inthisunit,studentsencounterpracticemultiple-choice
questions associated with promotional materials, letters,
conversations, and charts; tasks presented in the format
students will see on the AP Exam. Consistent exposure to
these will build students’ skills and helps them to prepare for
the exam.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – MULTIPLE CHOICE

§§ Students sometimes struggle to understand the cultural
nuances in promotional materials, so teachers can
explicitly point out and explain cultural references within
the sources.

§ Early in the course, students often struggle to interpret
information in charts and graphs because they
don’t know the vocabulary. Teachers should present
vocabulary thatfrequentlyappearsinchartsandgraphs,
such as percentage, rate, increase, decrease, trends,
amounts, etc.

In this unit and in those following, students also engage
withsomefree-responsetasksthatwillhelpbuildtheir
understanding and skills for the AP Exam. Students practice
conversation and email tasks and build skills toward the
cultural comparison task by completing a short cultural
presentationaboutaFrench-speakingcommunity.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – FREE RESPONSE

§§ Studentsfinditchallengingtocompletetheconversation
task if they are not familiar with the format and have
not practiced and received feedback throughout the
schoolyear.Tobuildstudents’skillsandconfidenceinthis
task,teacherscanprovidefrequentin-classpracticethat:
◆◆ familiarizesstudentswiththeconversationoutline.
◆

encourages students to brainstorm possible ways to
address each prompt.

§ For the email task, students may not complete all the
required elements given in the instructions. Teachers
should make sure that students address all the
following elements:
◆

provide a greeting and closing;

◆

answer two questions; and

◆◆ use the formal register;
◆

request more information.

§§ Earlyinthecourse,studentsfinditchallengingto
complete a cultural comparison, so students need
tobuilduptothistask.Studentsoftenfinditdifficult
to make comparisons, so in this unit they focus on
presentingculturalinformationaboutaFrench-speaking
community,togainconfidenceinpresentinginFrench.
Throughout the unit, teachers should ensure students
make note of new cultural information they encounter.

Course Framework V.1 | 26
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

1

Families in Different Societies

UNIT PLANNING
Students need to develop the skills presented in this unit in order to succeed both in the
courseandontheexam.OnthepagesthatfollowareselectedAPExamtaskmodelcharts
that focus on the modes of communication, themes, and skills taught in this unit. Each chart
presents a particular task model/mode of communication and includes associated skills and
learning objectives, along with useful teaching tips.

Go to AP Classroom to assign the Progress Check for Unit 1.
Review the results in class to identify and address any student misunderstandings.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 27
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

1

Families in Different Societies

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Promotional Material

MODE: WRITTEN AND PRINT INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text (text,
pictures, and
numbers)

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.1: Identify the main idea.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.1: Identify the intended audience.

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.A: Determine the
meaning of familiar and
unfamiliar words.

4.A.1: Determine the meaning of a variety of vocabulary.

1.A.2: Identify supporting/relevant details.

3.A.2: Identify the purpose.

4.A.2: Deduce the meaning of unfamiliar words or
expressions.

TEACHER TALK
§§ Select sources (websites, various types of ads, announcements) focused on topics related to this unit.

§ Have students predict what the source will be about based on the title and any accompanying visuals.

§§ Preview vocabulary in the context of authentic sources; select and present key vocabulary prior to presenting
the source.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 28
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

1

Families in Different Societies

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Letter

MODE: WRITTEN AND PRINT INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text (text,
pictures, and
numbers)

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.3:Retellorsummarizeinformationinnarrativeform.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio texts (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.1: Identify the intended audience.

3.B: Interpret the meaning
of a text.

3.B.2: Infer implied meanings through context.

3.A.2: Identify the purpose.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

TEACHER TALK
§§ Select or create formal letters focused on topics related to this unit.

§§ Teachstudentscomponentsofaformalletterby pointingoutregister,greetingsandclosings,verbforms,and
possessive adjectives.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 29
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

1

Families in Different Societies

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Conversation and Chart
MODE: PRINT, AUDIO, VISUAL, AND AUDIOVISUAL
INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION
Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text (text,
pictures, and
numbers)

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.1: Identify the main idea.

1.B: Describe data.

1.B.2: Describe data from a table, chart, graph, map, or
infographic.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.A: Determine the
meaning of familiar and
unfamiliar words.

4.A.1:Determinethemeaningofavarietyof vocabulary.

1.A.2: Identify supporting/relevant details.

4.A.2:Deducethemeaningofunfamiliar words
or expressions.

TEACHER TALK
§ Search for a conversation on a topic related to this unit.

§ Have students identify formulas used in conversations (greetings/closings, idiomatic expressions, transitional
expressions, etc.).

§ Have students identify vocabulary common to charts/graphs/tables, such as percentage, rate, increase, decrease,
trends, amounts, etc.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 30
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

1

Families in Different Societies

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Email Reply

MODE: WRITTEN INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

6: Communicate
interpersonally by
writing to others

6.A: Understand and
apply appropriate
communication strategies
in interpersonal writing.

6.A.1: Initiate, maintain, and close written exchanges.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
6.A.2: Provide and obtain relevant information in written
exchanges.
6.A.3: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in written
exchanges.

6.A.4: Use register appropriate for the intended target
culture audience in written exchanges.

6.A.5: Use communication strategies such as
circumlocution,requestingclarification,andparaphrasingto
maintain written exchanges.
6.B: Understand and apply
appropriate and varied
syntactical expressions in
interpersonal writing.

6.B.1: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinwrittenexchanges.
6.B.2: Comprehend and produce simple, compound, and
complex sentences in a variety of time frames in written
exchanges.

6.B.3: Use standard conventions of the written language
(e.g.,capitalization,orthography,accents,punctuation)in
written exchanges.

6.B.4:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninwrittenexchanges.

TEACHER TALK
§ Select or create a formal letter on a topic related to this unit.

§ Teach students how aspects of the email task are connected to the letter task.

§ Review use of the formal register.

§ Expand students’ repertoire of transitional expressions and cohesive devices.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 31
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

1

Families in Different Societies

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Conversation

MODE: SPOKEN INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

5: Communicate
interpersonally by
speaking with others

5.A: Understand and apply
appropriate communication
strategies in interpersonal
speaking.

5.A.1: Initiate, maintain, and close spoken exchanges.
5.A.2: Comprehend an interlocutor’s message in spoken
exchanges.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.

5.A.3: Provide and obtain relevant information in spoken
exchanges.
5.A.4: Use appropriate register and greeting for the
intended target culture audience in spoken exchanges.

5.A.5: Use pronunciation that is comprehensible when
interacting with speakers of the target language in spoken
exchanges.

5.A.6:Useeffectiveintonationpatterns,pacing,anddelivery
when interacting with speakers of the target language in
spoken exchanges.

5.B: Understand and apply
appropriate and varied
syntactical expressions in
interpersonal speaking.

5.A.7: Use communication strategies such as
circumlocution,requestingclarification,askingfor
repetition, and paraphrasing to maintain spoken exchanges.
5.B.1: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in spoken
exchanges.

5.B.2: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices in
spoken exchanges.
5.B.3: Comprehend and produce simple, compound, and
complex sentences in a variety of time frames in spoken
exchanges.

5.B.4:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninspokenexchanges.

TEACHER TALK
SUGGESTION FOR CREATING A RESOURCE
§§ Create oral/written simulated conversation prompts to which students can practice responding either individually, in
pairs, or in small groups.

§§ Teach students how aspects of the conversation task are connected to the conversation and chart task completed in
this unit (see page 30).

§ Teacheffectivewaystousecircumlocution.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 32
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

1

Families in Different Societies

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Cultural Presentation
MODE: SPOKEN PRESENTATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

7: Communicate
through spoken
presentations

7.A: Plan and research
an issue or topic for
presentational speaking.

7.A.1: Use a process to plan spoken presentations.

7.B: Use appropriate vocal
and visual strategies to
communicate an idea in
presentational speaking.

7.B.1: Produce spoken presentations in the appropriate
register with an introduction, development of topic, and
conclusion.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
7.A.2: Use research strategies to gather information and
evidence for inclusion in spoken presentations.

7.B.2: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinspokenpresentations.
7.B.3: Use pronunciation in spoken presentations that is
comprehensible to speakers of the target language.

7.B.4:Useeffectiveintonationpatterns,pacing,anddelivery
in spoken presentations.
7.B.5: Use communication strategies such as
circumlocution and paraphrasing to maintain spoken
presentations.
7.C: Use appropriate
language and vocabulary
for the intended audience
in presentational speaking.

7.C.1: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in spoken
presentations.

7.C.2: Produce simple, compound, and complex sentences
in a variety of time frames in spoken presentations.
7.C.3:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninspokenpresentations.

7.D: Express a perspective
with details and examples
to illustrate an opinion
or idea in presentational
speaking.

7.D.1: Explain ideas and opinions with examples in spoken
presentations.

7.D.2: Compare features (including products, practices, and
perspectives) of target cultural communities to those of the
student’s own community in spoken presentations.

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 33
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

1

Families in Different Societies

TEACHER TALK
§ Provideatemplatetohelpstudentsplanandorganizeaculturalpresentation.

§ Show students how to provide an introduction, development of the topic, and
a conclusion.

§§ Discusselementsofeffectivepresentations,suchasaudienceengagement,eyecontact,usinggestures,intonation,
and intentional pauses, etc.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 34
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH
LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

UNIT 2

The Influence
of Language
and Culture
on Identity

~19–21
CLASSPERIODS

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 35
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Remember to go to AP Classroom
to assign students the online
Progress Check for this unit.

Whether assigned as homework or
completed in class, the Progress
Check provides each student with
immediate feedback related to this
unit’scontentand skills.

Progress Check 2
Multiple-choice: ~20 questions
Free-response: 2 questions
§ Argumentative Essay
§§ Cultural Comparison

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 36
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

2

~19–21 CLASS PERIODS

The Influence of
Language and
Culture on Identity
Developing Understanding
ESSENTIAL
QUESTIONS
§§ How does one’s identity
evolve over time? / En
quoi l’identité évolue-telle au fil du temps?

§ How does language
shape our cultural
identity? / En quoi la
langue forme-t-elle
notre identité culturelle?
§ How does technology
influencethe
development of
personal and public
identity? / En quoi la
technologie influencet-elle le développement
de l’identité personnelle
et publique?

§§ How does the art of a
communityreflectits
public identity? / En quoi
l’art d’une communauté
reflète-t-il son identité
publique?

Unit2looksathowlanguageandcultureinfluenceidentityinFrench-speakingsocieties.This
relevant and engaging theme provides a meaningful context in which students can acquire
and develop a variety of more nuanced linguistic and cultural concepts as well as vocabulary.
While the primary focus will be on the theme of Personal and Public Identities, teachers are
encouraged to interweave the themes of Beauty and Aesthetics, Contemporary Life, and
Science and Technology. For example, students could:
§§ explore how developments in science and technology impact language and the ways we
communicate and, ultimately, how we see ourselves.

§ examinehowsocialmediaaffectspersonalimageandidentity.

§ consider the role of advertising in shaping personal and public identity.

§ explorehowacommunity’sidentityisreflectedinitsart.

Suggested Themes

Recommended Contexts

Personal and Public
Identities / La quête de soi

Gender and Sexuality / La sexualité
Language and Identity / L’identité linguistique
Nationalism and Patriotism / Le nationalisme et le
patriotisme

Beauty and Aesthetics /
L’esthétique

Contributions to World Artistic Heritage / Le patrimoine
Literature / Les arts littéraires
Visual Arts / Les arts visuels

Contemporary Life / La vie
contemporaine

Education / L’éducation et l’enseignement
Travel / Les voyages
Advertising and Marketing / La publicité et le marketing

Science and Technology /
La science et la technologie

The New Media / Les nouveaux moyens de
communication
Social Impacts of Technologies / La technologie et ses
effets sur la société
Intellectual Property / La propriété intellectuelle

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 37
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

2

The Influence of Language and Culture on Identity

Building Course Skills
Students continue to build interpretive skills through
engaging with literary texts, articles, charts, and audio
reports. Building on skills developed in Unit 1, students
enhance their skills in:
§§ identifying perspectives;

§ comprehending vocabulary in context;

§ summarizingcontentinnarrativeform;and

§ making interdisciplinary and cultural connections.

Practice in the interpretive mode prepares students to
engage in the presentational mode:
§ Students build skills in understanding content and
building academic vocabulary needed for writing an
argumentative essay by listening to and discussing audio
reports, interpreting data and cultural trends from a visual
text, and reading and discussing articles.

§ Students demonstrate their ability to express their own
viewpoints and support them with textual evidence by
writing a thesis statement and selecting relevant evidence.

§ By interacting with sources provided in this unit, students
acquireculturalinformationtopresentaone-minuteoral
cultural comparison between their own community and a
target community.

Preparing for the AP Exam
Inthisunit,studentsencountersomemultiple-choicetasks
similar to what they will see on the AP Exam and presented in
the same format but not yet at the level they will see on the
exam. These include literary texts, articles and charts, and
audio reports and articles.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – MULTIPLE CHOICE

§ Literary texts often prove challenging to students,
particularly in regard to understanding vocabulary that
make inferences based on tone, attitude, or perspective.
Teachers should anticipate which vocabulary words
maybechallengingtostudentsandhelpthemdefine
them. Presenting some background on the literary
text, including its context, may also help students with
comprehension. After students read a little of the text,
teachers should stop and ask them to predict what may
happennextorhowthestorymayfinish.Thiswillenhance
their ability to make inferences.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

§§ Multiple-choicetaskmodelscontainingtwosources,such
as an audio report and an article, can be challenging for
students;theymayneedspecifichelpfromtheteacher
identifying how the two sources are related and also in
whatwaystheyaresimilaranddifferent.Teacherscould
introducetheuseofgraphicorganizerstoassiststudents
inorganizinginformationfoundinthetwosources.

Becausestudentsfindtheargumentativeessayandthe
cultural comparison tasks challenging, in this unit, they
completeamodifiedversiontobuildskillsneededto
complete the full versions of these tasks in later units.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – FREE RESPONSE

§ Studentsfindwritinganargumentativeessaybasedon
three sources to be challenging. To build skills toward this
task in this unit, students write an essay based on just
two sources, focusing on creating their thesis/argument
and on including relevant evidence from the sources to
support their argument. Teacher feedback is most helpful
if it focuses solely on the essay’s argument and how it is
supported by evidence from the sources.

§§ Exam performance data indicate that students struggle
tocreateeffectiveculturalcomparisons,soagradual
building of skills for success on this task is needed.
Forthisunit,studentsdevelopaone-minutespoken
presentation that compares a cultural aspect of a
French-speakingcommunitythattheyhavelearned
about in this unit to the same cultural aspect in their
owncommunity.Studentsmaybenefitfromtheuse
ofagraphicorganizer,suchasaT-notechartora
Venndiagram,toorganizetheirthoughtsforthistask.
Successful responses will:
◆◆ containaneffectiveintroduction;
◆

definethetwocommunities;

◆

include a clear comparison; and

◆
◆

bewellorganized;

provide details and elaboration.

Course Framework V.1 | 38
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

2

The Influence of Language and Culture on Identity

UNIT PLANNING
Students need to develop the skills presented in this unit in order to succeed both in the
courseandontheexam.OnthepagesthatfollowareselectedAPExamtaskmodelcharts
that focus on the modes of communication, themes, and skills taught in this unit. Each chart
presents a particular task model/mode of communication and includes associated skills and
learning objectives, along with useful teaching tips.

Go to AP Classroom to assign the Progress Check for Unit 2.
Review the results in class to identify and address any student misunderstandings.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 39
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

2

The Influence of Language and Culture on Identity

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Literary Text

MODE: PRINT INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text (text,
pictures, and
numbers)

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.1: Identify the main idea.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.1: Identify the intended audience.

1.A.3:Retellorsummarizeinformationinnarrativeform.

3.A.2: Identify the purpose.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

TEACHER TALK
§§ Select one or more literary excerpts (e.g. short stories) as sources for this unit.

§§ Thetextscanbeusedtohelpstudentspracticelearningwords/phrasesincontext.Writeafewmultiple-choice
questions.

§§ Preview vocabulary in the context of authentic sources; select and present key vocabulary prior to presenting the
source.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 40
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

2

The Influence of Language and Culture on Identity

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Article and Chart
MODE: PRINT INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text (text,
pictures, and numbers)

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.2: Identify supporting/relevant details.

1.B: Describe data.

1.B.1: Identify and describe patterns and trends in data.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.2: Identify the purpose.

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.A: Determine the
meaning of familiar and
unfamiliar words.

4.A.2: Deduce meaning of unfamiliar words or expressions.

1.A.3:Retellorsummarizeinformationinnarrativeform.

TEACHER TALK
§§ Select sources that include articles and corresponding charts.

§ Have students identify connections between the two sources.

§ Introducegraphicorganizerstohelpstudentsorganizeinformationfoundinthetwosources.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 41
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

2

The Influence of Language and Culture on Identity

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Audio Report and Article
MODE: PRINT, AUDIO, VISUAL, AND AUDIOVISUAL
INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION
Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend written,
audio, audiovisual,
and visual text
(text, pictures, and
numbers).

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.1: Identify the main idea.

2: Make
interdisciplinary and
cultural connections

2.A: Make cultural
connections.

2.A.1: Identify and/or describe content and connections
among cultural topics.

2.B: Make connections in
and across disciplines.

2.B.3: Explain how information from a text connects or
relates to interdisciplinary topics or phenomena.

1.A.2: Identify supporting/relevant details.

2.A.3: Explain how information from a text connects or
relates to the target cultural topics or phenomena.

TEACHER TALK
§§ Select sources that include articles and audio and/or audiovisual sources on a given topic, related to Unit 2.

§§ Have students identify connections between the two sources.

§ Introducegraphicorganizerstohelpstudentsorganizeinformationfoundinthetwosources.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 42
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

The Influence of Language and Culture on Identity

UNIT

2

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Argumentative Essay
MODE: WRITTEN PRESENTATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

8: Communicate
through written
presentations

8.A: Plan and research
an issue or topic for
presentational writing.

8.A.1: Use a process to plan written presentations.

8.B: Use appropriate
writing strategies to
communicate an idea in
presentational writing.

8.B.1: Produce written presentations in the appropriate
register with an introduction, development of topic, and
conclusion.

8.C: Understand and apply
appropriate and varied
syntactical expressions in
presentational writing.

8.C.1: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinwrittenpresentations.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
8.A.2: Use research strategies to gather information and
evidence for inclusion in written presentations.

8.B.2: Use communication strategies, such as
circumlocution and paraphrasing, to maintain written
presentations.

8.C.2: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in written
presentations.

8.C.3: Produce simple, compound, and complex sentences
in a variety of time frames in written presentations.
8.C.4: Use standard conventions of the written language
(e.g.,capitalization,orthography,accents,punctuation)in
written presentations.

8.C.5: Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninwrittenpresentations.
8.D: Express a perspective
with details and examples
to illustrate an opinion
or idea in presentational
writing.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

8.D.1: Explain ideas and opinions with examples in written
presentations.
8.D.2: Integrate information from sources and cite them
appropriately in written presentations.

continued on next page

Course Framework V.1 | 43
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

2

The Influence of Language and Culture on Identity

TEACHER TALK
§ Providesentencestarterstohelpstudentsproduceaneffectivethesisstatement.

§§ Have students take notes while listening to audio sources and underline evidence in articles.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 44
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

The Influence of Language and Culture on Identity

UNIT

2

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Cultural Comparison
MODE: SPOKEN PRESENTATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

7: Communicate
through spoken
presentations

7.A: Plan and research
an issue or topic for
presentational speaking.

7.A.1: Use a process to plan spoken presentations.

7.B: Use appropriate vocal
and visual strategies to
communicate an idea in
presentational speaking.

7.B.1: Produce spoken presentations in the appropriate
register with an introduction, development of topic, and
conclusion.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
7.A.2: Use research strategies to gather information and
evidence for inclusion in spoken presentations.

7.B.2: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinspokenpresentations.
7.B.3: Use pronunciation in spoken presentations that is
comprehensible to speakers of the target language.

7.B.4: Useeffectiveintonationpatterns,pacing,anddelivery
in spoken presentations.
7.B.5: Use communication strategies, such as
circumlocution and paraphrasing, to maintain spoken
presentations.
7.C: Use appropriate
language and vocabulary
for the intended audience
in presentational speaking.

7.C.1: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in spoken
presentations.

7.D: Express a perspective
with details and examples
to illustrate an opinion
or idea in presentational
speaking.

7.D.1: Explain ideas and opinions with examples in spoken
presentations.

7.C.2: Produce simple, compound, and complex sentences
in a variety of time frames in spoken presentations.
7.C.3: Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninspokenpresentations.

7.D.2: Compare features (including products, practices, and
perspectives) of target cultural communities to those of the
student’s own community in spoken presentations.

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 45
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

2

The Influence of Language and Culture on Identity

TEACHER TALK
§§ Anyofthethemesfromtheunit(i.e.,linguisticdiversity,languageandidentity)canbeusedtocreateaculturalcomparisonpromptinthestyleoftheexam.Encouragestudentstomakeuseofspecificreferencesfromwhatthey
havestudied/learnedintheunitandspecificreferencestotheirownculturetodrawsimilaritiesanddifferences.

§§ Provideatemplate,suchasaT-chartorVenndiagram,tohelpstudentsplanandorganizetheirpresentation.

§ Show students how to provide an introduction, development of the topic, and a conclusion.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 46
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH
LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

UNIT 3

Influences
of Beauty
and Art

~19–21
CLASSPERIODS

French
Languageand
andPolitics
CultureCourse
Courseand
andExam
ExamDescription
Description
AP U.S.
Government

Course
CourseFramework
Framework V.1 || 47
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Remember to go to AP Classroom
to assign students the online
Progress Check for this unit.

Whether assigned as homework or
completed in class, the Progress
Check provides each student with
immediate feedback related to this
unit’scontentand skills.

Progress Check 3
Multiple-choice: ~15 questions
Free-response: 3 questions
§ Email Reply

§ Conversation

§ Cultural Comparison

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 48
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

3

~19–21 CLASS PERIODS

Influences of
Beauty and Art
Developing Understanding
ESSENTIAL
QUESTIONS
§§ How do ideals of
beauty and aesthetics
influencedailylife?/
En quoi les idéaux de
beauté et d’esthétique
influencent-ils la vie
quotidienne?
§§ How does art both
challengeandreflect
cultural perspectives?
/ Comment les arts
peuvent-ils à la fois
défier et refléter
les perspectives
culturelles?

§§ How do communities
value beauty and
art? / Pourquoi
les communautés
accordent-elles de
l’importance à la beauté
et aux arts?

§§ How is art used to
record history? / En quoi
les arts sont-ils utilisés
pour témoigner de
l’histoire?

ThisunitexploresthemesrelatedtotheinfluencesofbeautyandartinFrench-speaking
communities, which provides a meaningful context for students in which to acquire and
develop a variety of linguistic and cultural concepts. The primary focus will be on the theme
of Beauty and Aesthetics; however, teachers should incorporate the themes of Personal
and Public Identities, Contemporary Life, and Families and Communities by integrating
recommended contexts from these themes. For example, students could:
§§ explorehowartinfluencesthequalityoflifeandvaluesinacommunity.

§§ considertherole/importanceofartinFrench-speakingcommunities.

§§ discoverhowtheartscaptureandreflectthehistoryofacommunity.

§ investigatehowtheconceptofbeautyisdefinedwithinaculture.

§§ explorehowartchallengesandreflectsculturalperspectives.

Suggested Themes

Recommended Contexts

Beauty and Aesthetics /
L’esthétique

Architecture / L’architecture
Ideals of Beauty / Le beau
Performing Arts / Les arts du spectacle
Music / La musique
Literature / Les arts littéraires

Personal and Public
Identities / La quête de soi

Language and Identity / L’identité linguistique
Nationalism and Patriotism / Le nationalisme et le
patriotisme
Gender Identity / La sexualité

Contemporary Life / La vie
contemporaine

Advertising and Marketing / La publicité et le marketing
Holidays and Celebrations / Les fêtes
Travel / Les voyages
Leisure and Sports / Les loisirs et le sport

Families and Communities /
La famille et la communauté

Citizenship/La citoyenneté
Customs and Ceremonies / Les coutumes
Friendship and Love / L’amitié et l’amour

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 49
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

3

Influences of Beauty and Art

Building Course Skills
Students continue to build interpretive communication
skills by engaging with promotional materials, literary
texts, and letters of increasing complexity. Students also
practice interpreting audio and visual sources by listening
to conversations and viewing charts. Building on skills from
previous units, students:
§ identify point of view and purpose;

§ infer meanings;

§ summarizecontent;

§§ identify themes or morals; and

§ explain and compare cultural products, practices, and
perspectives.

Practice in the interpretive mode prepares students to
engage in the interpersonal and presentational modes.

§ Reading and deconstructing letters informs
students about the features of written interpersonal
communication, building skills in reading and responding
to emails.

§ Sources provide cultural perspectives for students to
incorporate in cultural comparisons.

§ Topreparestudentstopresentatwo-minute
comparisonbetweentheircommunityandaFrenchspeaking community, students practice delivering an
organizedpresentationwithathesisstatementand
supporting evidence.

§§ Students build their repertoire of transitional and cohesive
expressionstomakemoreeffective comparisons.

Preparing for the AP Exam
In this unit, students practice and receive feedback on
multiple-choicequestionsbasedonpromotionalmaterials,
letters, literary texts, and conversations and charts. The
questions in this unit begin to approach the complexity of the
AP Exam.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – MULTIPLE CHOICE

§§ Students sometimes struggle to understand vocabulary
in context, especially idiomatic expressions. Teachers can
provide opportunities for students to identify and explain
vocabulary based on the context of a source, adding
cultural background as appropriate.

§§ Students may also struggle when asked to explain how
data from a graph, chart, or table relate to a cultural
topic. They may need support in interpreting information
presented graphically.

§§ Studentsmayfinditdifficulttounderstanddetails
and nuance while listening to audio and audiovisual
sources. It’s a good idea to frequently check students’
comprehensionduringalisteningactivity.Onewaytodo
this is to pause a recording at several key points to ask
studentstoidentifyspecificdetailsandinferences.

Inthisunit,studentspracticethreefree-responsetask
models: email reply, conversation, and cultural comparison to
develop their skills.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – FREE RESPONSE

§§ Successfulresponsestoallfree-responsetasksarewell
organizedandprovidesignificantdetailandelaboration.
Teachers can support students in building these skills
byprovidingandreviewingexamplesofwell-organized
responses from AP Central that contain robust details
and elaboration.

§§ Studentsoftendonoteffectivelyusecohesivedevices
and transitional expressions when writing or speaking.
Acrossallfree-responsetasks,teachersshouldwork
with students to develop a robust variety of transitional
expressions and cohesive devices that go beyond the
commonly used ”and,” ”but,” and “because.” Students can
build a list of these expressions throughout the course,
and teachers can check for their use in student work. In
thisunit,studentscompleteafull,two-minutecultural
comparison, so teachers can look for opportunities
tohelpstudentsmakecomparisonsbetweenFrenchspeaking communities and their own. Teachers can
remindstudentstoconnecttheirideaswitheffective
transitional expressions.

§ Studentsoftenusesweepinggeneralizationsand
stereotypes when completing the cultural comparison,
whichcansometimesleadtoineffectiveandinaccurate
comparisons. Teachers should guide their students to set
up equal comparisons as much as possible. For example,
students should compare communities of similar scope
(e.g., a city to a city, a nation to a nation, a continent
to a continent).

§§ Students also struggle to identify distinguishing features
of a text, such as purpose, point of view, and/or intended
audience. During instruction, teachers can guide students
to discover these features by actively deconstructing a
text in class.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 50
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

3

Influences of Beauty and Art

UNIT PLANNING
Students need to develop the skills presented in this unit in order to succeed both in the
courseandontheexam.OnthepagesthatfollowareselectedAPExamtaskmodelcharts
that focus on the modes of communication, themes, and skills taught in this unit. Each chart
presents a particular task model/mode of communication and includes associated skills and
learning objectives, along with useful teaching tips.

Go to AP Classroom to assign the Progress Check for Unit 3.
Review the results in class to identify and address any student misunderstandings.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 51
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

3

Influences of Beauty and Art

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Promotional Material

MODE: WRITTEN AND PRINT INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text (text,
pictures, and
numbers)

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.1: Identify the main idea.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.4: Identifyorganizingand/orrhetoricalstructures
and/or strategies.

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.A: Determine the
meaning of familiar and
unfamiliar words.

4.A.2: Deduce the meaning of unfamiliar words or
expressions.

1.A.2: Identify supporting/relevant details.

1.A.3: Retellorsummarizeinformationinnarrativeform.

TEACHER TALK
§§ Select sources related to this unit.

§ Preview vocabulary in the context of authentic sources; select and present key vocabulary prior to presenting the
source.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 52
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

3

Influences of Beauty and Art

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Literary Text

MODE: PRINT INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text (text,
pictures, and numbers)

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.1: Identify the main idea.

2: Make
interdisciplinary and
cultural connections

2.B: Make connections in
and across disciplines.

2.B.1: Identify and/or describe content and connections
among interdisciplinary topics.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

3.B: Interpret the meaning
of a text.

3.B.1:Identifyand/ordescribesimilaritiesand/ordifferences
amongdifferenttypesoftexts.

3.A.4:Identifyorganizingand/orrhetoricalstructures
and/or strategies.

TEACHER TALK
• Select various literary excerpts related to the theme of beauty and aesthetics.

• Have students identify and discuss aspects of the texts that exemplify beauty and aesthetics.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 53
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

3

Influences of Beauty and Art

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Letter

MODE: WRITTEN AND PRINT INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.2: Identify the purpose.

3.B: Interpret the meaning
of a text.

3.B.2: Infer implied meanings through context.

3.A.4:Identifyorganizingand/orrhetoricalstructures
and/or strategies.

TEACHER TALK
§ Selectorcreateformallettersthataddressbeautyand/orart-relatedtopics(e.g.,aletterrequestingamuseumtour).

§ Teach students to read closely to interpret meaning from text.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 54
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

3

Influences of Beauty and Art

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Conversation and Chart
MODE: PRINT, AUDIO, VISUAL, AND AUDIOVISUAL
INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION
Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

2: Make
interdisciplinary and
cultural connections

2.B: Make connections in
and across disciplines.

2.B.2: Explain how data from a graph or table illustrate
interdisciplinary topics or phenomena.
2.B.4: Infer interdisciplinary information from a text.

TEACHER TALK
§ Provide students with an audio or video (including an interview) as well as a chart related to the same topic.

§ Have students create a conversation between two people discussing the connections between the audio or video
and the chart.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 55
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

3

Influences of Beauty and Art

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Email Reply

MODE: WRITTEN INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

6: Communicate
interpersonally by
writing to others

6.A: Understand and
apply appropriate
communication strategies
in interpersonal writing.

6.A.1: Initiate, maintain, and close written exchanges.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
6.A.2: Provide and obtain relevant information in written
exchanges.
6.A.3: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in written
exchanges.

6.A.4: Use register appropriate for the intended target
culture audience in written exchanges.

6.A.5: Use communication strategies, such as
circumlocution,requestingclarification,andparaphrasing,to
maintain written exchanges.
6.B: Understand and apply
appropriate and varied
syntactical expressions in
interpersonal writing.

6.B.1: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinwrittenexchanges.
6.B.2: Comprehend and produce simple, compound, and
complex sentences in a variety of time frames in written
exchanges.

6.B.3: Use standard conventions of the written language
(e.g.,capitalization,orthography,accents,punctuation)in
written exchanges.

6.B.4:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninwrittenexchanges.

TEACHER TALK
§ Create an email that focuses on one of the topics in the unit (i.e., an email to a student who may be interested in being
an intern at the Centre Pompidou).

§ Provide examples of replies that provide supporting details and elaboration.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 56
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

3

Influences of Beauty and Art

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Conversation

MODE: SPOKEN INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

5.A: Understand and
apply appropriate
communication strategies
in interpersonal speaking.

5.A.1: Initiate, maintain, and close spoken exchanges.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
5.A.2: Comprehend an interlocutor’s message in
spoken exchanges.

5.A.3: Provide and obtain relevant information in spoken
exchanges.
5.A.4: Use appropriate register and greeting for the
intended target culture audience in spoken exchanges.

5.A.5: Use pronunciation that is comprehensible when
interacting with speakers of the target language in spoken
exchanges.

5.A.6:Useeffectiveintonationpatterns,pacing,anddelivery
when interacting with speakers of the target language in
spoken exchanges.
5.A.7: Use communication strategies, such as
circumlocution,requestingclarification,askingfor
repetition, and paraphrasing, to maintain spoken exchanges.
5.B: Understand and apply
appropriate and varied
syntactical expressions in
interpersonal speaking.

5.B.1: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in spoken
exchanges.

5.B.2: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices in
spoken exchanges.
5.B.3: Comprehend and produce simple, compound, and
complex sentences in a variety of time frames in spoken
exchanges.

5.B.4:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninspokenexchanges.

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 57
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

3

Influences of Beauty and Art

TEACHER TALK
§ Create a guided conversation and/or improvisational conversation for students to complete with minimum guidance
(differentopinionsonapieceofart,goingtoamuseum,twodifferenttakesontheimportanceofart,etc.).

§ Have student pairs create a conversation in which one student calls to invite the other to the next art club meeting
where participants will get to create either a painting or a sculpture.

§ Have students learn to engage spontaneously with an interlocutor.

§ Havestudentspracticeguidedturnsandfree-flowinginterpersonalconversation.

§ Utilizeresourcesfromtheunittocreateaconversationtaskthatrelatestounitthemesandhelpssynthesize
information.

§ Provide students with examples of conversations with supporting details and elaboration.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 58
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

3

Influences of Beauty and Art

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Cultural Comparison
MODE: SPOKEN PRESENTATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

7: Communicate
through spoken
presentations

7.A: Plan and research
an issue or topic for
presentational speaking.

7.A.1: Use a process to plan spoken presentations.

7.B: Use appropriate vocal
and visual strategies to
communicate an idea in
presentational speaking.

7.B.1: Produce spoken presentations in the appropriate
register with an introduction, development of topic,
and conclusion.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
7.A.2: Use research strategies to gather information and
evidence for inclusion in spoken presentations.

7.B.2: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinspokenpresentations.
7.B.3: Use pronunciation in spoken presentations that is
comprehensible to speakers of the target language.

7.B.4:Useeffectiveintonationpatterns,pacing,anddelivery
in spoken presentations.
7.B.5: Use communication strategies, such as
circumlocution and paraphrasing, to maintain spoken
presentations.
7.C: Use appropriate
language and vocabulary
for the intended audience
in presentational speaking.

7.C.1: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in spoken
presentations.

7.C.2: Produce simple, compound, and complex sentences
in a variety of time frames in spoken presentations.
7.C.3:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninspokenpresentations.

7.D: Express a perspective
with details and examples
to illustrate an opinion
or idea in presentational
speaking.

7.D.1: Explain ideas and opinions with examples in spoken
presentations.

7.D.2: Compare features (including products, practices, and
perspectives) of target cultural communities to those of the
student’s own community in spoken presentations.

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 59
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

3

Influences of Beauty and Art

TEACHER TALK
§ Teachersshouldtrytomakealocalconnectiontotheinfluenceofartwithintheircommunity.Checkouttheschool’s
oralocalartclub,visitagallery,inviteagalleryowner/artist,etc.,to speak.

§ Provideagraphicorganizer(T-chartorVenndiagram)tohelpstudentsplanandorganizetheirpresentation.

§ Work with students to set up equal comparisons (e.g., city to a city, nation to a nation, etc.)

§ Releasedexamcontentcanalwaysserveasusefulclassroommaterialandasamodelforcraftingcustomized
prompts.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 60
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH
LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

UNIT 4

How
Science and
Technology
Af fect Our
Lives

~19–21
CLASSPERIODS

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 61
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

Remember to go to AP Classroom
to assign students the online
Progress Check for this unit.

Whether assigned as homework or
completed in class, the Progress
Check provides each student with
immediate feedback related to this
unit’scontentand skills.

Progress Check 4
Multiple-choice: ~15 questions
Free-response: 2 questions
§ Argumentative Essay
§ Cultural Comparison

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 62
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

4

~19–21 CLASS PERIODS

How Science
and Technology
Affect Our Lives
Developing Understanding
ESSENTIAL
QUESTIONS
§ What factors drive
innovation and
discovery in the
fieldsofscienceand
technology? / Quels
facteurs favorisent
l’innovation et la
découverte dans
les sciences et la
technologie?

§ What role do ethics
playinscientific
advancement? / Quel
rôle l’éthique joue-telle dans l’avancement
scientifique?
§ What are the social
consequences
ofscientificor
technological
advancements? /
Quelles sont les
conséquences
des avancements
scientifiques ou
technologiques?

Unit4explorestheeffectsofscienceandtechnologyonpeople’slivesinFrench-speaking
communities. This theme encourages students to work with more complex academic
vocabulary and content as they continue to develop linguistic and cultural concepts from
previous units. While Science and Technology is the primary thematic focus of the unit, it
is possible to integrate the additional themes of Global Challenges, Contemporary Life, and
Personal and Public Identities. For example, students could:
§ explore how developments in science can both create and resolve challenges in
contemporary society.

§ investigate how technology creates new ways for us to connect with others and how it
impacts and shapes our personal and public identities.

§ considerwaysaccesstotechnologyaffectssocietyandthequalityoflife.

§ examinehowscienceandtechnologyaffectthevaluesandethicsofacommunity.

Suggested Themes

Recommended Contexts

Science and Technology /
La science et la technologie

Ethical Questions / Les choix moraux
Discoveries and Inventions / Les découvertes et les
inventions
Future Technologies / L’avenir de la technologie
Current Research Topics / La recherche et ses nouvelles
frontières

Global Challenges /
Les défis mondiaux

Economic Issues / L’économie
Peace and War / La paix et la guerre
Human Rights / Les droits de l’être humain

Contemporary Life /
La vie contemporaine

Professions / Le monde du travail
Education / L’éducation et l’enseignement
Travel / Les voyages

Personal and Public
Identities / La quête de soi

Alienation and Assimilation / L’aliénation et l’assimilation
Beliefs and Values / Les croyances et les systèmes de
valeurs
Language and Identity / L’identité linguistique

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 63
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

4

How Science and Technology Af fect Our Lives

Building Course Skills
In this unit, students comprehend and interpret information
of increasing complexity as they read articles and charts
and listen to audio sources. Building on skills developed in
previous units, students:
§ identify purpose, perspectives, and point of view;

§ relate a source to another stimulus;

§ make connections within and across disciplines;

§ identify and explain cultural products, practices, and
perspectives; and

§ continue to develop visual literacy by identifying and
describing patterns and trends in data.

Practice in the interpretive mode prepares students to
engage in the presentational mode:

§ Identifying main ideas, supporting details, and points of
view in written and audio sources builds skills in selecting
evidence for writing an argumentative essay.

§ Reading and discussing articles and interpreting data
from charts related to articles build students’ skills in
selecting evidence for writing an argumentative essay.

§ Applying their cultural understanding by explaining
cultural products, practices, and perspectives builds
students’ skills in making comparisons.

Preparing for the AP Exam
Inthisunit,studentscompletemultiple-choicequestions
based on instructions, articles, charts, and presentations,
giving them the opportunity to practice working with varied
texts and to receive feedback on their comprehension of
items of increasing complexity.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – MULTIPLE CHOICE

§ Studentsfindlisteningtoauthenticinstructionsand
presentations challenging: the speed of delivery by
native speakers, the speaker’s presentational style
or dialect, and background sounds may interfere
with understanding. The content itself may also be
challenging. Teachers can prepare students by providing
numerous opportunities to listen to a wide variety of
audiosourcesfromtheFrench-speakingworld,ideally
providing key interdisciplinary vocabulary ahead of time.
Teachers should teach strategies for taking notes while
listening and encourage students to identify main ideas
and supporting details. Students can listen to the source
multiple times, with the teacher pausing occasionally to
check for students’ understanding.

§ AspreviouslystatedinUnit2,studentsfindtaskswith
two sources challenging. Students can continue to make
connectionsbetweensourcesusinggraphicorganizers.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Students also complete cultural comparison and
argumentativeessayfree-responsequestions.InUnit2,
students developed a thesis statement for their written
argument.InUnit4,theessaytaskisfurtherscaffoldedtothe
complexity students can expect on the AP Exam. Students
aregiven40minutestowriteanorganizedessayinresponse
to a prompt. In their essay, students should:
§ provide their own viewpoint;

§ support their viewpoint by integrating evidence from all
three sources;

§ cite the sources appropriately;

§ apply their knowledge of academic vocabulary;

§ writeparagraph-lengthdiscourse;and

§ guidethereaderbyusingeffectivetransitions.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – ARGUMENTATIVE ESSAY
§ Studentssometimesfocusonsummarizingthesources
instead of integrating evidence from all the sources to
support their argument. Teachers can show examples
fromAPCentralofeffectiveessaysthatsuccessfully
integratethesources.Teacherscanshowineffective
sample essays to demonstrate how not integrating
evidence detracts from the argument.

§ Studentsoftenstruggletoeffectivelyorganizetheirideas.
Teachers can guide students to:
◆ clearly state their argument in the opening paragraph.
◆
◆

develop their argument in subsequent paragraphs by
integrating evidence from the sources.
enhance the reader’s understanding by using
effectivetransitionsandcohesivedevices.

bring the essay to an appropriate conclusion in
which they do not simply restate their argument.
§ Students sometimes forget to cite sources used in
their essays. While using formal style guidelines is not
expected on the AP Exam, students should acknowledge
a source each time it is referenced, by giving the source
name, author, or number (Source 1, Source 2, Source 3)
or bystatingthetypeofsource(article,chart,audio).
◆

§ Students don’t always proofread and revise their work,
so teachers should remind students that reviewing their
work for spelling, grammar, and mechanics is part of the
writing process.

Cultural Comparison:

§ Students tend to focus too much on discussing one
communityortheotherinsteadofmakinganeffective
comparison. It’s important that students demonstrate
what they have learned about the target culture. A good
strategy to ensure that students discuss and compare the
two communities is to have them start their presentation
by talking about the target language community and then
transition to their own.
Course Framework V.1 | 64
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

4

How Science and Technology Af fect Our Lives

UNIT PLANNING
Students need to develop the skills presented in this unit in order to succeed both in the
courseandontheexam.OnthepagesthatfollowareselectedAPExamtaskmodelcharts
that focus on the modes of communication, themes, and skills taught in this unit. Each chart
presents a particular task model/mode of communication and includes associated skills and
learning objectives, along with useful teaching tips.

Go to AP Classroom to assign the Progress Check for Unit 4.
Review the results in class to identify and address any student misunderstandings.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 65
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

4

How Science and Technology Af fect Our Lives

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Article and Chart
MODE: PRINT INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text (text,
pictures, and
numbers)

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.1: Identify the main idea.

1.B: Describe data.

1.B.1: Identify and describe patterns and trends in data.

2: Make
interdisciplinary and
cultural connections

2.B: Make connections in
and across disciplines.

2.B.2: Explain how data from a graph or table illustrate
interdisciplinary topics or phenomena.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

1.B.2: Describe data from a table, chart, graph, map, or
infographic.

2.B.4: Infer interdisciplinary information from a text.

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of sources, including articles, charts, etc., about topics related to the unit.

§ Teachersmightshowchartsindependentlytoelicitideas,toaskstudentstoverbalizetheconclusionstheydraw
before reading the articles.

§ Introducegraphicorganizerstohelpstudentsorganizeinformationfoundintwosources.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 66
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

4

How Science and Technology Af fect Our Lives

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Interview

MODE: AUDIO, VISUAL, AND AUDIOVISUAL
INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION
Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

2: Make
interdisciplinary and
cultural connections

2.B: Make connections in
and across disciplines.

2.B.1: Identify and/or describe content and connections
among interdisciplinary topics.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of audio and/or audiovisual sources (interviews) around topics related to the unit.

§ Provide students with multiple opportunities to listen to, and take notes on, a text. Provide them with graphic
organizersasneeded.

§ Preview critical vocabulary prior to having students listen.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 67
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

4

How Science and Technology Af fect Our Lives

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Instructions

MODE: AUDIO, VISUAL, AND AUDIOVISUAL
INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION
Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.3:Retellorsummarizeinformationinnarrativeform.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.2: Identify the purpose.

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.A: Determine the
meaning of familiar and
unfamiliar words.

4.A.2: Deduce the meaning of unfamiliar words or
expressions.

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of audio and/or audiovisual sources, including instructions, about topics related to the unit (e.g.,
recipes, using technological devices, etc.).

§ Forvideosources,havestudentslistenfirstwithoutthevideoorwatchfirstwithoutsound.Then,askthemtoreact/
summarizebeforeplayingtheaudioandvideotogether.

§ Providestudentswithmultipleopportunitiestolistentoatextandprovidegraphicorganizersasneeded.

§ Preview critical vocabulary prior to having students listen.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 68
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

4

How Science and Technology Af fect Our Lives

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Presentation

MODE: AUDIO, VISUAL, AND AUDIOVISUAL
INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION
Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.1: Identify the intended audience.

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.A: Determine the
meaning of familiar and
unfamiliar words.

4.A.2: Deduce the meaning of unfamiliar words or
expressions.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of audio and/or audiovisual sources (presentations) focused on topics related to the unit.

§ Providestudentswithmultipleopportunitiestolistentoatextandprovidegraphicorganizersasneeded.

§ Preview critical vocabulary prior to having students listen.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 69
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

4

How Science and Technology Af fect Our Lives

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Argumentative Essay
MODE: WRITTEN PRESENTATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

8: Communicate
through written
presentations

8.A: Plan and research
an issue or topic for
presentational writing.

8.A.1: Use a process to plan written presentations.

8.B: Use appropriate
writing strategies to
communicate an idea in
presentational writing.

8.B.1: Produce written presentations in the appropriate
register with an introduction, development of topic, and
conclusion.

8.C: Understand and apply
appropriate and varied
syntactical expressions in
presentational writing.

8.C.1: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinwrittenpresentations.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
8.A.2: Use research strategies to gather information and
evidence for inclusion in written presentations.

8.B.2: Use communication strategies, such as
circumlocution and paraphrasing, to maintain written
presentations.

8.C.2: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in written
presentations.

8.C.3: Produce simple, compound, and complex sentences
in a variety of time frames in written presentations.
8.C.4: Use standard conventions of the written language
(e.g.,capitalization,orthography,accents,punctuation)in
written presentations.

8.C.5:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninwrittenpresentations.
8.D: Express a perspective
with details and examples
to illustrate an opinion
or idea in presentational
writing.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

8.D.1: Explain ideas and opinions with examples in written
presentations.
8.D.2: Integrate information from sources and cite them
appropriately in written presentations.

continued on next page

Course Framework V.1 | 70
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

4

How Science and Technology Af fect Our Lives

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of sources (articles, charts, videos) around topics related to the unit, including the evolution and
impact of technology on society and social media.

§ Provide students with practice Argumentative Essay prompts related to these topics, for example:
§ “Devrait-on limiter l’emploi de la technologie chez les jeunes?” or

§ Quels sont les avantages des réseaux sociaux?

§ Teachstudentstointegrateevidencefromthesourcesandnotsimplysummarizethesource’scontent.

§ Make sure students cite the sources appropriately.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 71
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

4

How Science and Technology Af fect Our Lives

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Cultural Comparison
MODE: SPOKEN PRESENTATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

7: Communicate
through spoken
presentations

7.A: Plan and research
an issue or topic for
presentational speaking.

7.A.1: Use a process to plan spoken presentations.

7.B: Use appropriate vocal
and visual strategies to
communicate an idea in
presentational speaking.

7.B.1: Produce spoken presentations in the appropriate
register with an introduction, development of topic, and
conclusion.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
7.A.2: Use research strategies to gather information and
evidence for inclusion in spoken presentations.

7.B.2: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinspokenpresentations.
7.B.3: Use pronunciation in spoken presentations that is
comprehensible to speakers of the target language.

7.B.4:Useeffectiveintonationpatterns,pacing,anddelivery
in spoken presentations.
7.B.5: Use communication strategies, such as
circumlocution and paraphrasing, to maintain spoken
presentations.
7.C: Use appropriate
language and vocabulary
for the intended audience
in presentational speaking.

7.C.1: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in spoken
presentations.

7.C.2: Produce simple, compound, and complex sentences
in a variety of time frames in spoken presentations.
7.C.3:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninspokenpresentations.

7.D: Express a perspective
with details and examples
to illustrate an opinion
or idea in presentational
speaking.

7.D.1: Explain ideas and opinions with examples in spoken
presentations.

7.D.2: Compare features (including products, practices, and
perspectives) of target cultural communities to those of the
student’s own community in spoken presentations.

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 72
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

How Science and Technology Af fect Our Lives

UNIT

4

TEACHER TALK
§ Providestudentswiththeopportunitytopracticeculturalcomparisons.Seethefollowingprompt:“Commentest-ce
quelesinnovationsscientifiquesrécentesonttouchélaviedesgensdansvotrecommunauté?”

§ Provideagraphicorganizer(T-chartorVenndiagram)tohelpstudentsincorporateculturalinformationfromatarget
language community as well as their own.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 73
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.

AP FRENCH
LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

UNIT 5

Factors
That Impact
the Quality
of Life

~19–21
CLASSPERIODS

French
Languageand
andPolitics
Culture Course
Courseand
andExam
ExamDescription
Description
AP U.S.
Government

Course
CourseFramework
Framework V.1 | 75
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

Remember to go to AP Classroom
to assign students the online
Progress Check for this unit.

Whether assigned as homework or
completed in class, the Progress
Check provides each student with
immediate feedback related to this
unit’scontentand skills.

Progress Check 5
Multiple-choice: ~20 questions
Free-response: 3 questions
§ Email Reply

§ Conversation

§ Cultural Comparison

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 76
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

5

~19–21 CLASS PERIODS

Factors That Impact
the Quality of Life
Developing Understanding
ESSENTIAL
QUESTIONS
§ How do aspects of
everydaylifeinfluence
and relate to the
quality of life? / En quoi
les aspects de la vie
quotidienne affectent-ils
et se rapportent-ils à la
qualité de vie?
§ How does where one
lives impact the quality
of life? / En quoi le lieu
où l’on vit influence-t-il
la qualité de vie?

§ Whatinfluences
one’s interpretation
and perceptions of
the quality of life? /
Qu’est-ce qui influence
l’interprétation et les
perceptions de la qualité
de vie?

ThisunitexploresthemesrelatedtothequalityoflifeinFrench-speakingcommunities,
which provides a meaningful context for students in which to work on increasingly nuanced
linguistic and cultural concepts as they expand their academic vocabulary. While the unit’s
primary thematic focus is Contemporary Life, the themes of Global Challenges, Science and
Technology, and Beauty and Aesthetics may also be incorporated. For example, students could:
§ explorehowone’ssocialstatusinfluencesone’squalityoflife.

§ investigate how cultural perspectives and traditions relate to the quality of life.

§ consider how access to education, health care, justice, food, and water impact
the quality of life.

§ explorehowgeographyinfluencesthequalityoflife.

Suggested Themes

Recommended Contexts

Contemporary Life /
La vie contemporaine

Education / L’éducation et l’enseignement
Rites of Passage / Les rites de passage
Housing and Shelter / Le logement
Professions / Le monde du travail

Global Challenges /
Les défis mondiaux

Human Rights / Les droits de l’être humain
Nutrition and Food Safety / L’alimentation
Economic Issues / L’économie

Science and Technology /
La science et la technologie

Professions / Le monde du travail
Education / L’éducation et l’enseignement
Travel / Les voyages

Beauty and Aesthetics /
L’esthétique

Ideals of Beauty / Le beau
Literature / Les arts littéraires
Contributions to World Artistic Heritage / La patrimoine

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 77
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

5

Factors That Impact the Quality of Life

Building Course Skills
Students read literary texts and interpret information in
interviews, instructions, and conversations. Building on skills
developed in previous units, students:
§ identify point of view, purpose, perspectives, and
intended audience;

§ summarizecontent;

§ identify theme or moral;

§ infer meanings based on context; and

§ connect content to interdisciplinary themes.

Students engage in the interpersonal and presentational
modes in the following ways:
§ They apply appropriate register, elaboration, and
communication strategies to interpersonal speaking
and writing.

§ They apply skills and vocabulary gained from reading
and deconstructing authentic sources while writing
and speaking.

§ They continue to build their repertoire of transitions and
cohesive devices to enhance their presentational speaking.

§ Theydeliverorganizedspokenpresentationswitha
thesis statementandsupportingevidence.

Preparing for the AP Exam
Inthisunit,studentscompletemultiple-choicequestions
with literary texts, interviews, instructions, and conversations
and charts. These questions closely align to the level of
complexity students can expect on the AP Exam.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – FREE RESPONSE

§ In the conversation task, students do not always follow
what they are directed to do in the provided outline.
When they do not follow directions, they are in danger of
goingofftaskandwillnotbeabletoreceiveahighscore.
Teachers need to make sure students read and adhere to
the outline.

§ During the conversation, students should not stop if they
realizetheymisunderstoodoneoftheturns,butrather
continue to do their best and listen carefully to the next
prompt from the interlocutor.

§ Studentsshouldnotoverusememorizedstockphrases.
For example, “What a good question,” “Let me think for
a minute,” and “Just a second” may be appropriate to
use occasionally, but such phrases should not be relied
on for each turn in the conversation. Students should be
encouraged to use the full 20 seconds to respond.

§ In both the conversation and the email tasks, students
need to pay attention to register and avoid shifting
registers during their responses.

§ For both speaking tasks, students should monitor their
languageproductionandbeencouragedtoself-correct
iftheyrealizethattheyhavemadeamistake.Theyarenot
penalizedfordoingsoontheexam.

§ For all tasks in this unit, students need to continue to
focus on providing details and elaboration.

§ Teachersshouldprovideexamplesofeffectivestudent
responses to conversations, emails, and cultural
comparisons from AP Central as models for students.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – MULTIPLE CHOICE

§ Studentsmayhavedifficultydifferentiatingamong
speakers while listening to interviews. Therefore, it
isimportantforteacherstooffermanyexamplesof
recorded interviews. Students should listen to sources
with interviews multiple times in order to clearly
distinguishthedifferentspeakers.Afterlistening,
teachers can provide excerpts and ask students to
identify each speaker.

§ Studentsoftenneglecttoreadtheadvanceorganizers
thatprecedeeachsource.Theseorganizersprovide
context and essential information about the sources that
follow, so teachers need to encourage their students to
read them.

Students also complete the conversation, email, and cultural
comparisonfree-responsequestions,whichaligntothe
format students will see on the AP Exam.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 78
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

5

Factors That Impact the Quality of Life

UNIT PLANNING
Students need to develop the skills presented in this unit in order to succeed both in the
courseandontheexam.OnthepagesthatfollowareselectedAPExamtaskmodelcharts
that focus on the modes of communication, themes, and skills taught in this unit. Each chart
presents a particular task model/mode of communication and includes associated skills and
learning objectives, along with useful teaching tips.

Go to AP Classroom to assign the Progress Check for Unit 5.
Review the results in class to identify and address any student misunderstandings.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 79
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

5

Factors That Impact the Quality of Life

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Literary Text

MODE: INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION – PRINT SOURCES

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

2: Make
interdisciplinary and
cultural connections

2.A: Make cultural
connections.

2.A.3: Explain how information from a text connects or
relates to the target cultural topics or phenomena.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.2: Identify the purpose.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

3.A.4:Identifyorganizingand/orrhetoricalstructuresand/or
strategies.
3.B: Interpret the meaning
of a text.

3.B.2: Infer implied meanings through context.

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of literary excerpts, including plays.

§ Actively guide students to examine a work to determine distinguishing features and make inferences.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 80
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

5

Factors That Impact the Quality of Life

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Conversation and Chart
MODE: PRINT, AUDIO, VISUAL, AND AUDIOVISUAL
INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION
Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text

1.B: Describe data.

1.B.2: Describe data from a table, chart, graph, map, or
infographic.

2: Make
interdisciplinary and
cultural connections

2.A: Make cultural
connections.

2.A.2: Explain how data from a graph or table illustrates
cultural topics or phenomena.

2.B: Make connections in
and across disciplines.

2.B.1: Identify and/or describe content and connections
among interdisciplinary topics.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.2: Identify the purpose.

3.B: Interpret the meaning
of a text.

3.B.1:Identifyand/ordescribesimilaritiesand/ordifferences
amongdifferenttypesoftexts.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of sources from throughout the Francophone world (audio, videos, and charts) on topics related to
this unit.

§ Havestudentsreviewadvancedorganizersfrompastexamquestionsorpracticeexamsanddiscusshowtheycan
helpstudentsprepareandorganizetheirresponses.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 81
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

5

Factors That Impact the Quality of Life

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Interview

MODE: AUDIO, VISUAL, AND AUDIOVISUAL
INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION
Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of audio sources (interviews) on topics related to the unit.

§ Provide students with multiple opportunities to listen to, and take notes on, a text. Provide them with graphic
organizersasneeded.

§ Work with students to identify the speaker(s) of an audio source.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 82
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

5

Factors That Impact the Quality of Life

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Instructions

MODE: AUDIO, VISUAL, AND AUDIOVISUAL
INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION
Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

2: Make
interdisciplinary and
cultural connections

2.A: Make cultural
connections.

2.A.1: Identify and/or describe content and connections
among cultural topics.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text (words)

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features of
a text.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.A: Determine the
meaning of familiar and
unfamiliar words.

4.A.2: Deduce the meaning of unfamiliar words or
expressions.

TEACHER TALK
§ Provide students with multiple opportunities to listen to, and take notes on, a text. Provide them with graphic
organizersasneeded.

§ Havestudentsreviewadvancedorganizersfrompastexamquestionsorpracticeexamsanddiscusshowtheycan
helpstudentsprepareandorganizetheirresponses.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 83
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

5

Factors That Impact the Quality of Life

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Email Reply

MODE: WRITTEN INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

6: Communicate
interpersonally by
writing to others

6.A: Understand and
apply appropriate
communication strategies
in interpersonal writing.

6.A.1: Initiate, maintain, and close written exchanges.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
6.A.2: Provide and obtain relevant information in written
exchanges.
6.A.3: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in written
exchanges.

6.A.4: Use register appropriate for the intended target
culture audience in written exchanges.

6.A.5: Use communication strategies, such as
circumlocution,requestingclarification,andparaphrasing,
to maintain written exchanges.
6.B: Understand and apply
appropriate and varied
syntactical expressions in
interpersonal writing.

6.B.1: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinwrittenexchanges.
6.B.2: Comprehend and produce simple, compound, and
complex sentences in a variety of time frames in written
exchanges.

6.B.3: Use standard conventions of the written language
(e.g.,capitalization,orthography,accents,punctuation)in
written exchanges.

6.B.4:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninwrittenexchanges.

TEACHER TALK
§ Create emails that touch on the themes of this unit (city versus country living, food, quality of life, etc.).

§ Present examples of replies that provide supporting details and elaboration.

§ Havestudentsmonitortheiruseofregisterduring responses.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 84
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

5

Factors That Impact the Quality of Life

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Conversation

MODE: SPOKEN INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

5: Communicate
interpersonally by
speaking with others

5.A: Understand and
apply appropriate
communication strategies
in interpersonal speaking.

5.A.1: Initiate, maintain, and close spoken exchanges.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
5.A.2: Comprehend an interlocutor’s message in spoken
exchanges.
5.A.3: Provide and obtain relevant information in spoken
exchanges.
5.A.4: Use appropriate register and greeting for the
intended target culture audience in spoken exchanges.

5.A.5: Use pronunciation that is comprehensible when
interacting with speakers of the target language in spoken
exchanges.

5.A.6:Useeffectiveintonationpatterns,pacing,anddelivery
when interacting with speakers of the target language in
spoken exchanges.
5.A.7: Use communication strategies, such as
circumlocution,requestingclarification,askingforrepetition,
and paraphrasing, to maintain spoken exchanges.
5.B: Understand and apply
appropriate and varied
syntactical expressions in
interpersonal speaking.

5.B.1: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in spoken
exchanges.

5.B.2: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices in
spoken exchanges.
5.B.3: Comprehend and produce simple, compound, and
complex sentences in a variety of time frames in spoken
exchanges.

5.B.4:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninspokenexchanges.

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 85
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

5

Factors That Impact the Quality of Life

TEACHER TALK
SUGGESTION FOR CREATING A RESOURCE
§ Create oral/written simulated conversation prompts to which students can practice responding with partners.

§ A possible conversation scenario is for a student to receive a call from a friend who is worried because he has
missedseveraldaysofschoolandwantshelpfindingoutwhatassignmentshe’smissing.Thefriendindicateshe
has a cold because he’s been too busy and not getting enough sleep and asks for advice on how to have a better life
balance.

§ Consistent practice with impromptu interpersonal speaking wherein students must respond to interlocutors is
essential.

§ Provide students with strategies for working with the conversation outline.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 86
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

5

Factors That Impact the Quality of Life

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Cultural Comparison
MODE: SPOKEN PRESENTATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

7: Communicate
through spoken
presentations

7.A: Plan and research
an issue or topic for
presentational speaking.

7.A.1: Use a process to plan spoken presentations.

7.B: Use appropriate vocal
and visual strategies to
communicate an idea in
presentational speaking.

7.B.1: Produce spoken presentations in the appropriate
register with an introduction, development of topic, and
conclusion.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
7.A.2: Use research strategies to gather information and
evidence for inclusion in spoken presentations.

7.B.2: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinspokenpresentations.
7.B.3: Use pronunciation in spoken presentations that is
comprehensible to speakers of the target language.

7.B.4:Useeffectiveintonationpatterns,pacing,anddelivery
in spoken presentations.
7.B.5: Use communication strategies, such as
circumlocution and paraphrasing, to maintain spoken
presentations.
7.C: Use appropriate
language and vocabulary
for the intended audience
in presentational speaking.

7.C.1: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in spoken
presentations.

7.C.2: Produce simple, compound, and complex sentences
in a variety of time frames in spoken presentations.
7.C.3:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninspokenpresentations.

7.D: Express a perspective
with details and examples
to illustrate an opinion
or idea in presentational
speaking.

7.D.1: Explain ideas and opinions with examples in spoken
presentations.

7.D.2: Compare features (including products, practices, and
perspectives) of target cultural communities to those of the
student’s own community in spoken presentations.

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 87
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

5

Factors That Impact the Quality of Life

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of sources (articles, audio, audiovisual, ads) around topics related to the unit.

§ Create a prompt asking students to compare in detail aspects of the target culture and their own. This can relate
to any of the themes of the unit (i.e., importance of daily life to quality of life) and/or can begin to branch out, to get
studentstosynthesizefromtheirstudiesthroughouttheyear,beyondthisoneunitofstudy.

§ Astheyearprogresses,timeconstraintsshouldbeusedsothatstudents becomemoreaccustomedtothefour
minutesallottedforbrainstormingandorganizationandthemaximaluseofthetwominutesof presentational
speaking.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 88
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH
LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

UNIT 6

Environmental,
Political,
and Societal
Challenges

~19–21
CLASSPERIODS

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 89
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

Remember to go to AP Classroom
to assign students the online
Progress Check for this unit.

Whether assigned as homework or
completed in class, the Progress
Check provides each student with
immediate feedback related to this
unit’scontentand skills.

Progress Check 6
Multiple-choice: ~20 questions
Free-response: 2 questions
§ Argumentative Essay
§ Cultural Comparison

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 90
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

6

~19–21 CLASS PERIODS

Environmental,
Political, and
Societal Challenges
Developing Understanding
ESSENTIAL
QUESTIONS
§ How do environmental,
political, and societal
challenges positively
and negatively impact
communities? /
En quoi les défis
environnementaux,
politiques et sociaux
ont-ils un impact
positif et négatif sur les
communautés?

§ What role do individuals
play in identifying and
potentially solving
complex societal
issues? / Quel rôle
l’individu joue-t-il
en identifiant et
éventuellement en
résolvant des problèmes
complexes de société?
§ How do challenging
issuesaffectasociety’s
culture? / En quoi
les enjeux difficiles
affectent-ils la culture
d’une société?

Thisfinalunitexploresthemesrelatedtohowcomplexissuesandphenomenaaffect
people’slivesinFrench-speakingcommunities.EngagingwiththeprimarythemeofGlobal
Challenges encourages students to use more sophisticated vocabulary and sentence
structureastheycontinuetorefinetheirknowledgeoflinguisticandculturalconcepts.
The unit also connects to the themes of Contemporary Life, Science and Technology, and
Families and Communities. For example, students could:
§ investigate how economic developments and environmental challenges often impact society
andpoliticsonalargerscale,whichinturnaffectsindividualfamiliesandcommunities.

§ explorehowindividualscanpositivelyornegativelyinfluencetheworldaroundthem.

§ suggest possible solutions that address contemporary global challenges.

Suggested Themes

Recommended Contexts

Global Challenges /
Les défis mondiaux

Environmental Issues / L’environnement
Health Issues / La santé
Nutrition and Food Safety / L’alimentation
Peace and War / La paix et la guerre
Economic Issues / L’économie

Contemporary Life /
La vie contemporaine

Education / L’éducation et l’enseignement
Holidays and Celebrations / Les fêtes
Housing and Shelter / Le logement

Science and Technology /
La science et la technologie

Ethical Questions / Les choix moraux
Discoveries and Inventions / Les découvertes
et les inventions
Social Impact of Technology / La technologie et ses
effets sur la société

Families and Communities /
La famille et la communauté

Age and Class / Les rapports sociaux
Customs and Ceremonies / Les coutumes
Family Structures / La famille

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 91
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

6

Environmental, Political, and Societal Challenges

Building Course Skills
At this point in the course, students are preparing for the
exam in earnest; reading articles, viewing charts, and listening
to audio reports and presentations of increasing length and
complexity, and building on skills from previous units. During
the unit, students engage with all four skill categories in the
interpretive mode to comprehend text, make connections,
interpret text, and make meanings.
In Units 2 and 4, students developed skills for creating
effectiveargumentativeessays,andinUnit6,theywillwrite
an essay using three sources, similar to the one that they
will be asked to complete on the exam. Writing the essay
is supported by the work students perform in this unit’s
interpretive mode activities, such as:
§ listening to and discussing audio reports and
presentations, which prepares students to engage with
the audio source associated with the argumentative
essay;

§ identifying main ideas, supporting details, and other
distinguishing features in articles, which builds skills for
students in selecting evidence for an argumentative
essay; and

§ viewing charts related to articles, which builds students’
skills in interpreting data and cultural trends related to the
visuals associated with the argumentative essay.

Studentscontinuetorefinetheirskillsinpresenting
effectiveculturalcomparisons.Theywilldemonstratetheir
understanding of culture as learned in this unit by comparing
oneculturalaspectofFrench-speakingcommunitieswith
that aspect in their own community.

Preparing for the AP Exam
Inthisfinalunit,studentscompletemultiple-choicequestions
in the interpretive mode, using articles and charts, audio
reports and articles, and presentations. Many skills acquired
throughthemultiple-choicequestionsaretransferableto
otherinterpretive-modeexamtaskmodels.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – MULTIPLE CHOICE

§ Thearticleandcharttaskmodelhasthemostmultiplechoiceitemsontheexam,andstudentsfindworking
with two sources challenging. Students need to deeply
engage with the content of both sources, so teachers
can help by working with students to unpack all the
information provided in the two sources and guide
students’ understanding with leading questions. Students
couldalsoengagewiththesourcesbyusingathink-pairshare activity.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

§ Studentsalsofindboththeaudioreportandarticle
taskmodeldifficultbecausetherearetwosources.
Teachers should guide students in making connections
and understanding the content of both sources and also
remind students to take good notes as they listen to the
audio report.

Students demonstrate presentational writing and speaking
skills by completing full argumentative essay and cultural
comparisonfree-responsequestions.Theyapplytheir
understanding of academic vocabulary in both written and
oralpresentationsandenhanceclaritybyusingeffective
transitions. Many skills developed in the presentational mode
are transferable to the interpersonal communication tasks on
the AP Exam.

AREAS OF CHALLENGE – FREE RESPONSE
For the essay task, students need to remember to:

§ provideathesisstatementthatclearlydefinestheir
argument;

§ integrate relevant evidence from all three sources in
support of their argument;

§ leave time to review and revise their work, paying careful
attention to mechanics (teachers can provide a checklist
of basic punctuation, spelling, and grammatical issues);
and

§ write legibly so that the reader does not have to interpret
their handwriting.

For the cultural comparison task:

§ students sometimes do not state a clear thesis as a basis
for their presentation. Students need to establish a strong
thesis for their cultural comparison and ensure that they
address a cultural aspect in both their community and a
French-speakingcommunity.

§ many students do not respond fully to the prompt of the
cultural comparison but rather give generalities about the
topic. Teachers can remind students to read the prompt
carefullyandmakesuretoaddresstherole,influence,
attitude,perspective,orsignificanceofthetopic.

§ students need to pay careful attention to the pace of their
delivery, so that they can deliver a maximum amount of
information in two minutes.

§ students should resist the temptation to write out their
cultural comparison before delivering it. Instead, teachers
can encourage students to write down key words or ideas
that they want to include in their presentation.

Course Framework V.1 | 92
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

6

Environmental, Political, and Societal Challenges

UNIT PLANNING
Students need to develop the skills presented in this unit in order to succeed both in the
courseandontheexam.OnthepagesthatfollowareselectedAPExamtaskmodelcharts
that focus on the modes of communication, themes, and skills taught in this unit. Each chart
presents a particular task model/mode of communication and includes associated skills and
learning objectives, along with useful teaching tips.

Go to AP Classroom to assign the Progress Check for Unit 6.
Review the results in class to identify and address any student misunderstandings.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 93
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

6

Environmental, Political, and Societal Challenges

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Article and Chart
MODE: PRINT INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text

1.B: Describe data.

1.B.2: Describe data from a table, chart, graph, map, or
infographic.

2: Make
interdisciplinary and
cultural connections

2.A: Make cultural
connections.

2.A.4: Infer cultural information from a text.

2.B: Make connections in
and across disciplines.

2.B.3: Explain how information from a text connects or
relates to interdisciplinary topics or phenomena.

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.A: Determine the
meaning of familiar and
unfamiliar words.

4.A.2: Deduce the meaning of unfamiliar words or
expressions.

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of audio sources (articles and charts) on topics related to the unit.

§ Have students make inferences based on the content of the sources.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 94
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Environmental, Political, and Societal Challenges

UNIT

6

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Audio Report and Article
MODE: PRINT, AUDIO, VISUAL, AND AUDIOVISUAL
INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION
Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text (text,
pictures, and
numbers)

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.1: Identify the main idea.

2: Make
interdisciplinary and
cultural connections

2.A: Make cultural
connections.

2.A.3: Explain how information from a text connects or
relates to the target cultural topics or phenomena.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features
of a text.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

3.B: Interpret the meaning
of a text.

3.B.2: Infer implied meanings through context.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

1.A.3:Retellorsummarizeinformationinnarrativeform.

continued on next page

Course Framework V.1 | 95
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

6

Environmental, Political, and Societal Challenges

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of audio sources (articles and audio) about topics related to the unit.

§ Students could complete a Venn diagram with the center listing common points between article and audio sources
on the same topic.

§ Studentscouldworkinpairstoconstructemailsorlettersasafollow-upcommunicationwiththeindividuals
interviewed in the sources.

§ Have students identify connections between the two sources.

§ Have students take notes as they listen to the audio.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 96
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

UNIT

6

Environmental, Political, and Societal Challenges

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Presentation

MODE: AUDIO, VISUAL, AND AUDIOVISUAL
INTERPRETIVE COMMUNICATION
Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

1: Comprehend
written, audio,
audiovisual, and
visual text

1.A: Describe the literal
meaning of the text.

1.A.2: Identify supporting/relevant details.

2: Make
interdisciplinary and
cultural connections

2.A: Make cultural
connections.

2.A.3: Explain how information from a text connects or
relates to the target cultural topics or phenomena.

3: Interpret the
content of written or
audio text

3.A: Interpret the
distinguishing features
of a text.

3.A.3: Identify and/or describe the point(s) of view,
perspective(s), tone, or attitude.

3.B: Interpret the meaning
of a text.

3.B.2: Infer implied meanings through context.

3.A.4:Identifyorganizingand/orrhetoricalstructures
and/or strategies.

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of audio and/or audiovisual sources (presentations) about topics related to the unit.

§ Providestudentswithmultipleopportunitiestolistentoatextandprovidethemwithgraphicorganizersasneeded.

§ Provide students with opportunities to make inferences after listening to a source.
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 97
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

6

Environmental, Political, and Societal Challenges

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Argumentative Essay
MODE: WRITTEN PRESENTATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

8: Communicate
through written
presentations

8.A: Plan and research
an issue or topic for
presentational writing.

8.A.1: Use a process to plan written presentations.

8.B: Use appropriate
writing strategies to
communicate an idea in
presentational writing.

8.B.1: Produce written presentations in the appropriate
register with an introduction, development of topic, and
conclusion.

8.C: Understand and apply
appropriate and varied
syntactical expressions in
presentational writing.

8.C.1: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinwrittenpresentations.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
8.A.2: Use research strategies to gather information and
evidence for inclusion in written presentations.

8.B.2: Use communication strategies, such as
circumlocution and paraphrasing, to maintain written
presentations.

8.C.2: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in written
presentations.

8.C.3: Produce simple, compound, and complex sentences
in a variety of time frames in written presentations.
8.C.4: Use standard conventions of the written language
(e.g.,capitalization,orthography,accents,punctuation)in
written presentations.

8.C.5:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninwrittenpresentations.
8.D: Express a perspective
with details and examples
to illustrate an opinion
or idea in presentational
writing.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

8.D.1: Explain ideas and opinions with examples in written
presentations.
8.D.2: Integrate information from sources and cite them
appropriately in written presentations.

continued on next page

Course Framework V.1 | 98
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Environmental, Political, and Societal Challenges

UNIT

6

TEACHER TALK
§ In preparation for the exam, the presentational writing task requires comprehension and synthesis of resources that
haveNOTalreadybeenstudiedanddiscussedinclass.

§ Teach students to review and revise their work, paying attention to mechanics.

§ Make sure students cite the sources appropriately.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 99
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

UNIT

6

Environmental, Political, and Societal Challenges

STIMULUS/TASK MODEL

Cultural Comparison
MODE: SPOKEN PRESENTATIONAL COMMUNICATION

Skill Category

Skill

Learning Objective

4: Make meanings
from words and
expressions

4.B: Use words appropriate
for a given context.

4.B.1: Use a variety of vocabulary in written and spoken
communication.

7: Communicate
through spoken
presentations

7.A: Plan and research
an issue or topic for
presentational speaking.

7.A.1: Use a process to plan spoken presentations.

7.B: Use appropriate vocal
and visual strategies to
communicate an idea in
presentational speaking.

7.B.1: Produce spoken presentations in the appropriate
register with an introduction, development of topic, and
conclusion.

4.B.2: Explain and use idiomatic and culturally authentic
expressions.
7.A.2: Use research strategies to gather information and
evidence for inclusion in spoken presentations.

7.B.2: Use transitional expressions and cohesive devices to
createparagraph-lengthdiscourseinspokenpresentations.
7.B.3: Use pronunciation in spoken presentations that is
comprehensible to speakers of the target language.

7.B.4:Useeffectiveintonationpatterns,pacing,anddelivery
in spoken presentations.
7.B.5: Use communication strategies, such as
circumlocution and paraphrasing, to maintain spoken
presentations.
7.C: Use appropriate
language and vocabulary
for the intended audience
in presentational speaking.

7.C.1: Use a variety of grammar and syntax in spoken
presentations.

7.C.2: Produce simple, compound, and complex sentences
in a variety of time frames in spoken presentations.
7.C.3:Monitorlanguageproduction;recognizeerrorsand
attemptself-correctioninspokenpresentations.

7.D: Express a perspective
with details and examples
to illustrate an opinion
or idea in presentational
speaking.

7.D.1: Explain ideas and opinions with examples in spoken
presentations.

7.D.2: Compare features (including products, practices, and
perspectives) of target cultural communities to those of the
student’s own community in spoken presentations.

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 100
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Environmental, Political, and Societal Challenges

UNIT

6

TEACHER TALK
§ Select a variety of sources (articles, audio, audiovisual, ads) around topics related to the unit. Topics can include
awareness toward environmental challenges or solutions implemented to address environmental issues.

§ In preparation for the exam, the presentational speaking task requires going beyond what was just studied and
discussed in class. Students can discuss the questions in small groups and then come together to discuss as a class.

§ Makesurestudentspayattentiontotheverbusedinthepromptsotheyaresuretoaddresstherole,influence,
attitude,perspective,orsignificanceasstatedintheprompt.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Course Framework V.1 | 101
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

Achievement
Level Descriptions

Introduction
The degree to which student performance meets the
learning objectives in each skill category is articulated in
the Achievement Level Descriptions, which define how well
students at each level perform. Due to the interrelated nature
of the modes of communication, all the achievement level
descriptions work in concert with one another and should be
consider holistically. While references to levels 1–5 cannot
precisely predict a student’s ultimate score on the AP Exam,
AP teachers can use this information to develop better
insight into individual student performance and adjust their
curriculum and instruction accordingly.
The AP French Language and Culture course and exam target a range of student performance
so that all students can experience success in some or most skills. The Achievement Level
Descriptions (ALDs) provide detailed expectations for performance in each skill at each level
so both students and teachers can understand what typical performance is required for skills
ateachdifferentlevel.Teachersandstudentscanusethemtodevelopstrategiesformoving
to the next level of performance. It is important to remember that students’ ability to function
ineachskillmaybedifferent;forexample,astudentmayperformatanALDskilllevelof4in
interpretive communication but may be at the 3 level in interpersonal communication.
Acrossthespectrumofthecourse’sskills,wehavealsodefinedeachskillinthe
range of three skill levels:
§ E: Emerging. Students are generally performing at ALD level 2.

§ P:Proficient.StudentsaregenerallyperformingintherangeofALDlevels3–4.

§ A: Advanced. Students are generally performing in the range of ALD levels 4–5.

This graphic shows the progression of ALDs in relation to their E/P/A designation:
ALD 1

ALD 2
EMERGING

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

ALD 3

ALD 4

PROFICIENT

ALD 5

ADVANCED

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 105
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP VALIDATED LGUAGE AND CULTURE VALIDATED

Achievement Level Descriptions
Interpretive Mode
Comprehend Text 1
Comprehend written, audio, audiovisual,
and visual text (text, pictures, and numbers)
STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2
EMERGING

SKILLS
1.A
1.B

Describetheliteralmeaningofthetext

Describedata

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3
PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

COMPREHENSION OF CONTENT

identifiesmainideas
and details when the
correct answer is
stated directly (nearly
verbatim) in the text

identifiesafewmain
ideas and details on
familiar topics

identifiesseveralmain
ideas and details on
familiar topics

identifiesmostmain
ideas and some
significantdetailsona
range of topics

identifiesmainideas
andsignificantdetails
on a range of topics

seldom responds
accurately to basic
information questions
(Who, What, When,
Where-typequestions)

sometimes responds
accurately to basic
information questions
(Who, What, When,
Where-typequestions)

responds accurately
to basic information
questions (Who, What,
When,Where-type
questions)

responds accurately
to basic information
questions (Who, What,
When,Where,Why-type
questions)

responds accurately
to basic information
questions (Who, What,
When,Where,Why-type
questions)
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 106
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

Interpretive Mode
Make Connections 2
Make interdisciplinary and
cultural connections
STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2
EMERGING

SKILLS
2.A
2.B

Makeculturalconnections

Makeconnectionsinandacrossdisciplines

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3
PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

CULTURAL AND INTERDISCIPLINARY CONNECTIONS

shows little or no
awareness of cultural
products and practices
of the target culture(s)

identifiesafewcommon identifiessomeofthe
identifiestheproducts
cultural products and
cultural products and
and practices and some
practices of the target
practices of the target
perspectives of the
culture(s)
culture(s) and may
target culture(s)
identify a few common
perspectives of the target
culture(s) with inaccuracies

identifiesmanyofthe
relationships among
products, practices,
and perspectives of the
target culture(s)

demonstrates minimal
understanding of basic
content of familiar
interdisciplinary topics
present in the resource

demonstrates limited
understanding of basic
content of familiar
interdisciplinary topics
present in the resource

demonstrates an
understanding of basic
content of familiar
interdisciplinary topics
in theresource

demonstrates an
understanding of some
content of familiar
interdisciplinary topics
presented in the resource

demonstrates an
understanding of most
content of familiar
interdisciplinary topics
presented in the resource

generally unable to
identify or compare
geographic, historical,
artistic, social, or political
features of target culture
communities

minimally able to
identify and compare
geographic, historical,
artistic, social, or political
features of target culture
communities

identifiesandcompares
a few geographic,
historical, artistic, social,
or political features
of target culture
communities

compares and contrasts
some geographic,
artistic, social, or
political features
of target culture
communities

compares and contrasts
a variety of geographic,
artistic, social, or
political features
of target culture
communities

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 107
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE VALIDATED

Achievement Level Descriptions
Interpretive Mode
Interpret Text 3

SKILLS

Interpret the content of written or audio
text (words)
STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2
EMERGING

COMPREHENSION OF CONTENT

3.A
3.B

Interpretthedistinguishingfeaturesofatext

Interpretthemeaningofatext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES FOR CRITICAL READING, LISTENING, AND VIEWING

identifiesdistinguishing
features of the text
only when the correct
answer is stated directly
(nearly verbatim) in
the text

identifiesfew
distinguishing features
of the text (e.g., type
of resource, intended
audience, purpose)

identifiessomeofthe
distinguishing features
of the text (e.g., type
of resource, intended
audience, purpose)

identifiesseveralofthe
distinguishing features
of the text (e.g., type
of resource, intended
audience, purpose)

identifiesmost
ofthesignificant
distinguishing features
of the text (e.g., type
of resource, intended
audience, purpose)

rarely responds to
questions that require
inferring implied
meanings

occasionally responds
to questions that
require inferring implied
meanings

responds to a limited
number of questions
that require inferring
implied meanings

responds to some
questions that require
inferring implied
meanings

differentiatesfacts
from opinions by
accurately answering
most questions that
require inferring implied
meanings

Make Meaning 4
Make meanings from words and
expressions
STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2
EMERGING

SKILL
4.A

Determinethemeaningoffamiliarandunfamiliarwords

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3
PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

VOCABULARY

is seldom able to use
context to deduce the
meaning of unfamiliar
vocabulary

is occasionally able
to use context to
deduce the meaning of
unfamiliar vocabulary

is sometimes able to use
context to deduce the
meaning of unfamiliar
vocabulary

is often able to use
context to deduce
the meaning of some
unfamiliar vocabulary

is usually able to use
context to deduce the
meaning of unfamiliar
words and usually infer
implied meanings

comprehends basic
vocabulary limited to
familiar thematic word
groups, made up mostly
ofmemorizedphrases

comprehends a limited
range of vocabulary
from familiar thematic
word groups, including
memorizedphrases
and a few idiomatic
expressions

comprehends a variety
of vocabulary from
familiar thematic word
groups, including some
idiomatic expressions

comprehends most
vocabulary, including
some culturally
appropriate and idiomatic
expressions related to
familiar or studied topics

comprehends a wide
range of vocabulary,
including culturally
appropriate and some
idiomatic expressions
related to familiar or
studied topics and some
unfamiliar topics

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 108
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE VALIDATED

Achievement Level Descriptions
Interpersonal Mode
Speak to Others 5

Communicate interpersonally by speaking
with others

Make Meaning

4

Make meanings from words and
expression
STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2
EMERGING

SKILLS
5.A Understandandapplyappropriatecommunicationstrategiesin
interpersonal speaking

5.B Understandandapplyappropriateandvariedsyntacticalexpressions
in interpersonal speaking
4.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3
PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES

minimally able to initiate,
maintain, or close
conversations on topics
of personal interest;
communication requires
interpretation

initiate and close
conversations on
topics of personal
interest and maintain
them by making
basic statements;
communication often
requires interpretation

initiate, maintain, and
close conversations
on familiar topics;
communication may
require interpretation

initiate, maintain, and
close conversations
on familiar topics;
communication rarely
requires interpretation

initiate, maintain, and
close conversations
on familiar topics;
communication requires
little or no interpretation

minimally able to
respond to questions
and statements on
topics of personal
interest

responds to questions
and statements on
topics of personal
interest

understands and
responds to questions
and statements on
familiar topics

understands and
responds to questions
and statements on
familiar topics with
some elaboration and
detail

understands and
responds to questions
on familiar topics with
frequent elaboration
and detail

generally unable to
interact in a culturally
appropriate manner

little ability to interact in
a culturally appropriate
manner

sometimes interacts in
a culturally appropriate
manner

usually interacts in a
culturally appropriate
manner and may
understand and use
culturally appropriate
expressions and
gestures

understands
and usually uses
culturally appropriate
expressions and
gestures

generally unable to
seekclarification

mayseekclarification
by asking for basic
information or
repetition

occasionally uses
communication
strategies (repetition,
askingforclarification,
questions,
paraphrasing,
circumlocution) when
interacting on familiar
topics

uses some
communication
strategies (repetition,
askingforclarification,
questions,
paraphrasing,
circumlocution)
to maintain
communication

uses a variety of
communication
strategies (repetition,
askingforclarification,
questions, paraphrasing,
circumlocution) as
necessary to maintain
communication

rarelyrecognizeserrors
and generally unable to
successfullyself-correct

seldomrecognizes
errors, and attempts
atself-correctionare
usually unsuccessful

mayrecognizeerrors;
attempts at correction
are occasionally
successful

recognizessomeerrors recognizesmosterrors
andoftenself-corrects andusuallyselfsuccessfully
corrects successfully
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 109
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Interpersonal Mode
Speak to Others 5

Communicate interpersonally by speaking
with others

Make Meaning

4

Make meanings from words and
expression
STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2

SKILLS
5.A Understandandapplyappropriatecommunicationstrategiesin
interpersonal speaking

5.B Understandandapplyappropriateandvariedsyntacticalexpressions
in interpersonal speaking
4.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

expression of opinions
limited to expressing
likes and dislikes

able to state opinions
on topics of personal
interest

able to state opinions
on familiar topics
with limited ability to
support them

states opinions and
demonstrates some
ability to support
opinions on topics of
personal interest

understands and uses
a limited range of basic
vocabulary from familiar
thematic word groups

understands and uses
a limited range of
vocabulary from familiar
thematic word groups,
includingmemorized
phrases and a few
culturally appropriate
and idiomatic
expressions

understands and uses
vocabulary from familiar
thematic word groups,
including occasionally
some culturally
appropriate and
idiomatic expressions
related to topics of
personal interest

understands and
uses vocabulary on
a variety of familiar
topics, including some
culturally appropriate
and idiomatic
expressions related
to topics of personal
interest

understands and uses
vocabulary, including
culturally appropriate
idiomatic expressions
on a variety of familiar
topics, including
some beyond those of
personal interest

seldom able to use
context to deduce the
meaning of unfamiliar
words

occasionally able to use
context to deduce the
meaning of unfamiliar
words

sometimes able to use
context to the deduce
meaning of unfamiliar
words

often able to use
context to deduce the
meaning of unfamiliar
words

usually able to use
context to deduce the
meaning of unfamiliar
words

EMERGING

PROFICIENT

ADVANCED

COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES

expression of opinions
limited to isolated
words or phrases

VOCABULARY

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 110
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE VALIDATED

Achievement Level Descriptions
Interpersonal Mode
Speak to Others 5

Communicate interpersonally by speaking
with others

Make Meaning

4

Make meanings from words and
expression
STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2
EMERGING

SKILLS
5.A Understandandapplyappropriatecommunicationstrategiesin
interpersonal speaking

5.B Understandandapplyappropriateandvariedsyntacticalexpressions
in interpersonal speaking
4.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3
PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

LANGUAGE CONTROL

is barely
understandable
in speech with
frequentorsignificant
errors that impede
comprehensibility

is partially
understandable in
speech with errors that
force interpretation
and impede
comprehensibility

is generally
understandable in
speech with errors
that may impede
comprehensibility

is fully understandable
in speech with
several errors that
do not impede
comprehensibility

is fully understandable
in speech with
ease and clarity of
expression; occasional
errors do not impede
comprehensibility

demonstrates little or
no control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates limited
control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates some
control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates general
control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates control
of grammar, syntax, and
usage

uses simple, often
memorizedsentences
and phrases

uses simple sentences
and phrases

uses simple and a few
compound sentences

uses simple, compound, uses a variety of
and a few complex
simple and compound
sentences
sentences and some
complex sentences

demonstrates little
or no control of time
frames

demonstrates some
accuracy in present
time and little or no
accuracy in other time
frames

is mostly accurate
in present time and
demonstrates limited
accuracy in other time
frames

is mostly accurate in
present time with some
accuracy in other time
frames

narrates and describes
in the present, past, and
future time frames with
general accuracy

demonstrates little or
no control of register

demonstrates minimal
awareness of register,
using mainly the familiar
register

demonstrates an
inconsistent use of
appropriate register;
shifts between formal
and informal register
occur

usually demonstrates
use of appropriate
register, except for
some occasional shifts
between formal and
informal register

usually demonstrates
use of appropriate
register, with consistent
use, despite a few
occasional shifts
between formal and
informal register
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 111
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Interpersonal Mode
Speak to Others 5

Communicate interpersonally by speaking
with others

Make Meaning

4

Make meanings from words and
expression
STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

SKILLS
5.A Understandandapplyappropriatecommunicationstrategiesin
interpersonal speaking

5.B Understandandapplyappropriateandvariedsyntacticalexpressions
in interpersonal speaking
4.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

pronunciation and
intonation are mostly
comprehensible to
someone accustomed
to interacting with
language learners;
errors impede
comprehensibility

pronunciation
and intonation are
comprehensible to
someone accustomed
to interacting
with language
learners; errors may
occasionally impede
comprehensibility

pronunciation and
intonation, pacing, and
delivery are mostly
comprehensible to
someone accustomed
to interacting with
language learners;
errors do not impede
comprehensibility

pronunciation and
intonation, pacing,
and delivery are
comprehensible
to someone
unaccustomed to
interacting with
language learners

EMERGING

PROFICIENT

ADVANCED

LANGUAGE CONTROL

pronunciation and
intonationaredifficult
to understand,
even with someone
accustomed to
interacting with
language learners

CULTURAL AND INTERDISCIPLINARY CONNECTIONS

shows little or no
awareness of cultural
products and practices
of the target culture(s)

identifiesafew
common cultural
products and practices
of the target culture(s)

identifiessome
products and practices
of the target culture(s)
and may identify a few
common perspectives
of the target culture(s)
with inaccuracies

identifiesanddescribes
with some details the
products and practices
of the target culture(s)
and may identify some
perspectives of the
target culture(s) with
some inaccuracies

identifiesthe
relationship among
products, practices,
and perspectives of the
target culture(s) and
compares them with
their own culture

generally unable to
identify or compare
geographic, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

minimally able to
identify or compare
geographic, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

identifiesandcompares
a few geographic,
artistic, social, or
political features
of target culture
communities

compares and
contrasts some
geographic, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

compares and
contrasts a variety of
geographic, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 112
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE VALIDATED

Achievement Level Descriptions
Interpersonal Mode
Write to Others 6

Communicate interpersonally by writing
to others

Make Meaning 4

Make meanings from words and expression
STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2
EMERGING

SKILLS
6.A Understandandapplyappropriatecommunicationstrategiesin
interpersonal writing

6.B Understandandapplyappropriateandvariedsyntacticalexpressions
in interpersonalwriting
4.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3
PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES

minimally able to
initiate, maintain,
or close written
exchanges on topics
of personal interest;
communication
requires interpretation

initiates, maintains,
and closes written
exchanges on
topics of personal
interest by making
basic statements;
communication often
requires interpretation

initiates, maintains,
and closes written
exchanges on familiar
topics; communication
may require
interpretation

initiates, maintains,
and closes written
exchanges in
formal and informal
communications,
although control of
culturally appropriate
conventions is
inconsistent

initiates, maintains,
and closes written
exchanges in
formal and informal
communications
with good control of
culturally appropriate
conventions

generally unable to
respond to questions
and statements on
topics of personal
interest

responds to questions
and statements on
topics of personal
interest

understands and
responds to questions
and statements on
familiar topics

understands and
responds to questions
and statements on
familiar topics with some
elaboration and detail

understands and
responds to questions
on familiar topics with
frequent elaboration
and detail

generally unable to
interact in a culturally
appropriate matter

little ability to interact in
a culturally appropriate
manner

sometimes interacts in
a culturally appropriate
manner

usually interacts in a
culturally appropriate
manner and may use
culturally appropriate
expressions

understands
and usually uses
culturally appropriate
expressions

generally unable to
seekclarification

mayseekclarification
by asking for basic
information or
repetition

occasionally uses
communication
strategies (repetition,
askingforclarification,
questions,
paraphrasing,
circumlocution) when
interacting on familiar
topics

uses communication
strategies (repetition,
askingforclarification,
questions,
paraphrasing,
circumlocution)
to maintain
communication

uses a variety of
communication
strategies (repetition,
askingforclarification,
questions,
paraphrasing,
circumlocution) as
necessary to maintain
communication

rarelyrecognizeserrors seldomrecognizes
and generally unable
errors, and attempts at
tosuccessfullyselfself-editingusually fail
correct

mayrecognizeerrors;
attemptsatself-editing
are occasionally
successful

recognizessomeerrors recognizesmosterrors
andself-corrects
andusuallyselfcorrects successfully
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 113
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Interpersonal Mode
Write to Others 6

Communicate interpersonally by writing
to others

Make Meaning

4

Make meanings from words and
expression

6.A Understandandapplyappropriatecommunicationstrategiesin
interpersonal writing

6.B Understandandapplyappropriateandvariedsyntacticalexpressions
in interpersonal writing
4.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

expression of opinions
limited to expressing
likes and dislikes

able to state opinions
on topics of personal
interest

able to state opinions
on familiar topics
with limited ability to
support them

states opinions and
demonstrates some
ability to support
opinions on topics of
personal interest

understands and uses
a limited range of basic
vocabulary from familiar
thematic word groups

understands and uses
a limited range of
vocabulary from familiar
thematic word groups,
includingmemorized
phrases and a few
culturally appropriate
and idiomatic
expressions

understands and uses
vocabulary from familiar
thematic word groups,
including occasionally
some culturally
appropriate and
idiomatic expressions
related to topics of
personal interest

understands and
uses vocabulary on
a variety of familiar
topics, including some
culturally appropriate
and idiomatic
expressions related
to topics of personal
interest

understands and uses
vocabulary, including
culturally appropriate
idiomatic expressions
on a variety of familiar
topics, including
some beyond those of
personal interest

seldom able to use
context to deduce the
meaning of unfamiliar
words

occasionally able to use
context to deduce the
meaning of unfamiliar
words

sometimes able to use
context to deduce the
meaning of unfamiliar
words

often able to use
context to deduce the
meaning of unfamiliar
words

usually able to use
context to deduce the
meaning of unfamiliar
words

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2

SKILLS

EMERGING

PROFICIENT

ADVANCED

COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES

expression of opinions
limited to isolated
words or phrases

VOCABULARY

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 114
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE VALIDATED

Achievement Level Descriptions
Interpersonal Mode
Write to Others 6

Communicate interpersonally by writing
to others

Make Meaning 4

Make meanings from words and expression
STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2
EMERGING

SKILLS
6.A Understandandapplyappropriatecommunicationstrategiesin
interpersonal writing

6.B Understandandapplyappropriateandvariedsyntacticalexpressions
in interpersonal writing
4.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3
PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

LANGUAGE CONTROL

is barely
understandable in
writing with frequent
orsignificant
errors that impede
comprehensibility

is partially
understandable in
writing with errors that
force interpretation
and impede
comprehensibility

is generally
understandable in
writing with errors
that may impede
comprehensibility

is fully understandable
in writing with
several errors that
do not impede
comprehensibility

is fully understandable
in writing with ease and
clarity of expression;
occasional errors
do not impede
comprehensibility

demonstrates little or
no control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates limited
control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates some
control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates general
control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates control
of grammar, syntax, and
usage

uses simple, often
memorizedsentences
and phrases

uses simple sentences
and phrases

uses simple and a few
compound sentences

uses simple, compound, uses a variety of
and a few complex
simple and compound
sentences
sentences and some
complex sentences

demonstrates little
or no control of time
frames

demonstrates some
accuracy in present
time and little or no
accuracy in other time
frames

is mostly accurate
in present time and
demonstrates limited
accuracy in other time
frames

is mostly accurate in
present time with some
accuracy in other time
frames

narrates and describes
in the present, past, and
future time frames with
general accuracy

demonstrates little or
no control of register

demonstrates minimal
awareness of register,
using mainly the familiar
register

demonstrates an
inconsistent use of
appropriate register;
shifts between formal
and informal register
occur

usually demonstrates
use of appropriate
register, except for
some occasional shifts
between formal and
informal register

usually demonstrates
use of appropriate
register, with consistent
use, despite a few
occasional shifts
between formal and
informal register

writing generally shows
no use of standard
conventions of the
written language

writing shows little
use of standard
conventions of the
written language

shows inconsistent
use of standard
conventions of the
written language that
sometimes interferes
with meaning

writing is generally
consistent in the use of
standard conventions
of the written language

writing is marked by
consistent use of
standard conventions
of the written language

continued on next page
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 115
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Interpersonal Mode
Write to Others 6

Communicate interpersonally by writing
to others

Make Meaning

4

Make meanings from words and
expression
STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2

EMERGING

SKILLS
6.A Understandandapplyappropriatecommunicationstrategiesin
interpersonal writing

6.B Understandandapplyappropriateandvariedsyntacticalexpressions
in interpersonal writing
4.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3
PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

CULTURAL AND INTERDISCIPLINARY CONNECTIONS

shows little or no
awareness of cultural
products and practices
of the target culture(s)

identifiesafew
common cultural
products and practices
of the target culture(s)

identifiessome
products and practices
of the target culture(s)
and may identify a few
common perspectives
of the target culture(s)
with inaccuracies

identifiesanddescribes
with some details the
products and practices
of the target culture(s)
and may identify some
perspectives of the
target culture(s) with
some inaccuracies

identifiesthe
relationship among
products, practices,
and perspectives of the
target culture(s) and
compares them with
their own culture

generally unable to
identify or compare
geographic, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

minimally able to
identify or compare
geographic, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

identifiesandcompares
a few geographic,
artistic, social, or
political features
of target culture
communities

compares and
contrasts some
geographic, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

compares and
contrasts a variety of
geographic, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 116
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE VALIDATED

Achievement Level Descriptions
Presentational Mode
Present Orally 7

Communicate through spoken
presentations

Make Meaning 4

Make meanings from words and
expression

SKILLS
7.A

7.C Useappropriatelanguageandvocabularyfortheintendedaudiencein
presentational speaking

7.D Expressaperspectivewithdetailsandexamplestoillustrateanopinion
or idea in presentational speaking
4.B

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2
EMERGING

Planandresearchanissueortopicforpresentationalspeaking

Useappropriatevocalandvisualstrategiestocommunicateanideain
presentational speaking
7.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3
PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES

offerslittleorno
treatment of the topic
in oral presentations,
consisting mostly of
repetition of the prompt
or information from
the source materials;
may not refer to any of
the source materials
provided

offersaninadequate
treatment of the topic
in oral presentations,
consisting mostly of
statements with no
development; may use
inaccurate examples
or make inaccurate
references to source
materials provided
or may not refer to
all source materials
provided

offersanadequate
treatment of the topic
in oral presentations,
including a few
supporting details and
references to all source
materials provided

offersaneffective
treatment of the topic
in oral presentations,
including some
supporting details
and mostly relevant
examples, and
references to all source
materials provided

offersathoroughand
effectivetreatment
of the topic in oral
presentations, including
supporting details and
relevant examples, and
references to all source
materials provided

demonstrates little
ornoorganizationin
spoken responses and
a lack of transitional
and cohesive devices

demonstrates
inadequateorganization
in spoken responses
andineffectiveuseof
transitional elements or
cohesive devices

demonstrates some
organizationinspoken
responses, including a
few basic transitional
elements or cohesive
devices

demonstrates
organizationinspoken
responses, including
someeffectiveuseof
transitional elements or
cohesive devices

demonstrateseffective
organizationinspoken
responses, including
effectiveuseof
transitional elements or
cohesive devices

uses occasional
sentences and
memorizedwordsand
phrases to express
personal opinions,
describe, and narrate
on topics of personal
interest

uses strings of
sentences to express
personal opinions,
describe, and narrate
on topics of personal
interest

uses strings of
sentences and a few
basic cohesive devices
to express personal
opinions, describe,
and narrate on familiar
topics

usesmostlyparagraphlength discourse with
appropriate use of
some cohesive devices
to explain, express
opinions, describe,
and narrate on familiar
topics

usesparagraph-length
discourse with mostly
appropriate use of
cohesive devices to
report, explain, and
narrate on a range of
familiar topics
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 117
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Presentational Mode
Present Orally 7

Communicate through spoken
presentations

Make Meaning 4

Make meanings from words and
expression

SKILLS
7.A

7.C Useappropriatelanguageandvocabularyfortheintendedaudiencein
presentational speaking

7.D Expressaperspectivewithdetailsandexamplestoillustrateanopinion
or idea in presentational speaking
4.B

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2
EMERGING

Planandresearchanissueortopicforpresentationalspeaking

Useappropriatevocalandvisualstrategiestocommunicateanideain
presentational speaking
7.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3
PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES

generally unable to
develop ideas and lacks
structuralorganization

shows little evidence
of development of
ideas, and structural
organizationmaybe
lacking

shows evidence of
some development
of ideas and basic
structuralorganization
(introduction, argument,
and conclusion)

shows some
evidence of ideas
that are developed
and supported with
examples

develops ideas by
showing evidence
of synthesis and
interpretation of
background information

rarelyrecognizeserrors
and generally unable
tosuccessfullyselfcorrect

seldomrecognizes
errors, and attempts
at self-correction
usually fail

employs limited
communication
strategies, such
as repetition
and emphasis;
self-correction
is occasionally
successful

may employ some
communication
strategies appropriately,
such as paraphrasing
andclarification;selfcorrection is often
successful

employs a variety of
strategies to clarify
and elaborate content
ofpresentation;selfcorrection is mostly
successful

uses a limited range of
vocabulary from familiar
thematic word groups,
includingmemorized
phrases and a few
culturally appropriate
and idiomatic
expressions

uses vocabulary from
familiar thematic word
groups, including
occasionally some
culturally appropriate
and idiomatic
expressions

uses vocabulary on
a variety of familiar
topics, including some
culturally appropriate
and idiomatic
expressions related
to topics of personal
interest

uses vocabulary on
a variety of familiar
topics, including
some beyond those
of personal interest;
uses some culturally
appropriate vocabulary
and idiomatic
expressions

VOCABULARY

uses a limited range of
basic vocabulary from
familiar word groups

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 118
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE VALIDATED

Achievement Level Descriptions
Presentational Mode
Present Orally

7

Communicate through spoken
presentations

Make Meaning 4

Make meanings from words and
expression

SKILLS
7.A

7.C Useappropriatelanguageandvocabularyfortheintendedaudiencein
presentational speaking

7.D Expressaperspectivewithdetailsandexamplestoillustrateanopinion
or idea in presentational speaking
4.B

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

Planandresearchanissueortopicforpresentationalspeaking

Useappropriatevocalandvisualstrategiestocommunicateanideain
presentational speaking
7.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

is barely
understandable
in speech with
frequentorsignificant
errors that impede
comprehensibility

is partially
understandable in
speech with errors that
force interpretation
and impede
comprehensibility

is generally
understandable in
speech with errors
that may impede
comprehensibility

is fully understandable
in speech with
several errors that
do not impede
comprehensibility

is fully understandable
in speech with
ease and clarity of
expression; occasional
errors do not impede
comprehensibility

demonstrates little or
no control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates limited
control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates some
control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates general
control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates control
of grammar, syntax, and
usage

uses simple, often
memorizedsentences
and phrases

uses simple sentences
and phrases

uses simple and a few
compound sentences

uses simple, compound, uses a variety of
and a few complex
simple and compound
sentences
sentences and some
complex sentences

demonstrates little
or no control of time
frames

demonstrates some
accuracy in present
time and little or no
accuracy in other time
frames

is mostly accurate
in present time and
demonstrates limited
accuracy in other time
frames

is most accurate in
present time with some
accuracy in other time
frames

narrates and describes
in the present, past, and
future time frames with
general accuracy

demonstrates little or
no control of register

demonstrates minimal
awareness of register,
using mainly the familiar
register

demonstrates an
inconsistent use of
appropriate register;
shifts between formal
and informal register
occur

usually demonstrates
use of appropriate
register, except for
some occasional shifts
between formal and
informal register

usually demonstrates
use of appropriate
register, with consistent
use, despite a few
occasional shifts
between formal and
informal register

EMERGING

PROFICIENT

ADVANCED

LANGUAGE CONTROL

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 119
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Presentational Mode
Present Orally

7

Communicate through spoken
presentations

Make Meaning 4

Make meanings from words and
expression

SKILLS
7.A

7.C Useappropriatelanguageandvocabularyfortheintendedaudiencein
presentational speaking

7.D Expressaperspectivewithdetailsandexamplestoillustrateanopinion
or idea in presentational speaking
4.B

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2
EMERGING

Planandresearchanissueortopicforpresentationalspeaking

Useappropriatevocalandvisualstrategiestocommunicateanideain
presentational speaking
7.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3
PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

LANGUAGE CONTROL

pronunciation and
intonationaredifficult
to understand,
even with someone
accustomed to
interacting with
language learners

pronunciation and
intonation are mostly
comprehensible to an
audience accustomed
to interacting with
language learners;
errors impede
comprehensibility

pronunciation
and intonation are
comprehensible to an
audience accustomed
to interacting with
language learners,
yet errors may
occasionally impede
comprehensibility

pronunciation,
intonation, pacing, and
delivery are mostly
comprehensible to an
audience accustomed
to interacting with
language learners;
errors do not impede
comprehensibility

pronunciation and
intonation patterns,
pacing, and delivery
are comprehensible
to an audience
unaccustomed to
interacting with
language learners

CULTURAL AND INTERDISCIPLINARY CONNECTIONS

shows little or no
awareness of cultural
products and practices
of the target culture(s)

identifiesafew
common cultural
products or practices
of the target culture(s)

identifiessomecultural
products and practices
of the target culture(s)
and may identify a few
common perspectives
of the target culture(s)
with inaccuracies

identifiesanddescribes,
with some details, the
products and practices
of the target culture(s);
may identify some
perspectives of the
target culture(s) with
some inaccuracies

identifieswithsome
elaboration, the
relationship among
products, practices,
and perspectives of the
target culture(s)

demonstrates minimal
understanding of basic
content of familiar
interdisciplinary topics
present in source
materials

demonstrates limited
understanding of some
content of familiar
interdisciplinary topics
presented in source
materials

demonstrates some
understanding of some
content of familiar
interdisciplinary topics
presented in source
materials

demonstrates an
understanding of
much of the content of
familiar interdisciplinary
topics presented in
source materials

demonstrates an
understanding of most
content of familiar
interdisciplinary topics
presented in source
materials

generally unable to
identify or compare
geographic, historical,
artistic, social, or
political features
of target culture
communities

minimally able to
identify or compare
geographic, historical,
artistic, social, or
political features
of target culture
communities

identifiesandcompares
a few geographic,
historical, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

compares and
contrasts some
geographic, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

compares and
contrasts a variety of
geographic, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 120
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE VALIDATED

Achievement Level Descriptions
Presentational Mode
Present in Writing 8

Communicate through written
presentations

Make Meaning 4

Make meanings from words and
expression

SKILLS
8.A

8.C Understandandapplyappropriateandvariedsyntacticalexpressions
in presentational writing

8.D Expressaperspectivewithdetailsandexamplestoillustrateanopinion
or idea for written presentations
4.B

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2
EMERGING

Planandresearchanissueortopicforpresentationalwriting

Useappropriatewritingstrategiestocommunicateanideain
presentational writing
8.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3
PROFICIENT

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

ADVANCED

COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES

offerslittleorno
treatment of the topic
in written presentations,
consisting mostly of
repetition of the prompt
or information from
the source materials;
may not refer to any of
the source materials
provided

offersaninadequate
treatment of the topic
in written presentations,
consisting mostly of
statements with no
development; may use
inaccurate examples
or make inaccurate
references to source
materials provided
or may not refer to
all source materials
provided

offersanadequate
treatment of the topic
in written presentations,
including a few
supporting details and
references to all source
materials provided

offersaneffective
treatment of the
topic in written
presentations, including
some supporting
details and mostly
relevant examples, and
references to all source
materials provided

offersathoroughand
effectivetreatment
of the topic in written
presentations, including
supporting details and
relevant examples, and
references to all source
materials provided

demonstrates little
ornoorganizationin
written responses and
lack of transitional and
cohesive devices

demonstrates
inadequateorganization
in written responses
andineffectiveuseof
transitional elements or
cohesive devices

demonstrates some
organizationinwritten
responses, including a
few basic transitional
elements or cohesive
devices

demonstrates
organizationinwritten
responses, including
someeffectiveuseof
transitional elements or
cohesive devices

demonstrateseffective
organizationinwritten
responses, including
effectiveuseof
transitional elements or
cohesive devices

uses occasional
sentences and
memorizedwordsand
phrases to express
personal opinions,
describe, and narrate
on topics of personal
interest; may copy
content from sources

uses strings of
sentences to express
personal opinions,
describe, and narrate
on topics of personal
interest;summarizes
sources without
supporting the
presentation

uses strings of
sentences and a few
basic cohesive devices
to express personal
opinions, describe,
and narrate on familiar
topics;summarizes
content from sources
to support their
presentation

usesmostlyparagraphlength discourse with
appropriate use of
some cohesive devices
to explain, express
opinions, describe,
and narrate on familiar
topics;summarizes
multiple sources with
limited integration of
content to support their
presentation

usesparagraph-length
discourse with mostly
appropriate use of
cohesive devices to
report, explain, and
narrate on a range
of familiar topics;
integrates content
from multiple sources
to support their
presentation
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 121
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Presentational Mode
Present in Writing 8

Communicate through written
presentations

Make Meaning 4

Make meanings from words and
expression

SKILLS
8.A

8.C Understandandapplyappropriateandvariedsyntacticalexpressions
in presentational writing

8.D Expressaperspectivewithdetailsandexamplestoillustrateanopinion
or idea for written presentations
4.B

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2

Planandresearchanissueortopicforpresentationalwriting

Useappropriatewritingstrategiestocommunicateanideain
presentational writing
8.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

uses limited
presentational
strategies to clarify
meaning;effortsatselfediting usually fail

may use some
communication
strategies appropriately,
such as paraphrasing
andclarification;selfediting is occasionally
successful

uses some
communication
strategies
appropriately, such
as paraphrasing and
clarification;self-editing
is often successful

uses a variety of
strategies to clarify and
elaborate the content
of the presentation;
self-correctionis
mostly successful

uses vocabulary from
familiar thematic word
groups, including
memorizedphrases
and a few idiomatic
expressions

uses vocabulary from
familiar thematic
word groups
and occasionally
incorporates some
culturally appropriate
and idiomatic
expressions

uses vocabulary on
a variety of familiar
topics, including some
culturally appropriate
and idiomatic
expressions related
to topics of personal
interest

uses vocabulary on
a variety of familiar
topics, including
some beyond those
of personal interest;
uses some culturally
appropriate vocabulary
and idiomatic
expressions

EMERGING

PROFICIENT

ADVANCED

COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES

generally unable to
use communication
strategies to clarify
meaning; rarely
recognizeserrors
and generallyunable
to successfully
self-correct
VOCABULARY

uses a limited range of
basic vocabulary from
familiar word groups

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 122
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE VALIDATED

Achievement Level Descriptions
Presentational Mode
Present in Writing 8

Communicate through written
presentations

Make Meaning 4

Make meanings from words and
expression

SKILLS
8.A

8.C Understandandapplyappropriateandvariedsyntacticalexpressions
in presentational writing

8.D Expressaperspectivewithdetailsandexamplestoillustrateanopinion
or idea in written presentations
4.B

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

Planandresearchanissueortopicforpresentationalwriting

Useappropriatewritingstrategiestocommunicateanideain
presentational writing
8.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

is barely
understandable in
writing with frequent
orsignificant
errors that impede
comprehensibility

is partially
understandable in
writing with errors that
force interpretation
and impede
comprehensibility

is generally
understandable in
writing with errors
that may impede
comprehensibility

is fully understandable
in writing with
several errors that
do not impede
comprehensibility

is fully understandable
in writing with ease and
clarity of expression;
occasional errors
do not impede
comprehensibility

demonstrates little or
no control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates limited
control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates some
control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates general
control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

demonstrates control
of grammar, syntax, and
usage

uses simple, often
memorizedsentences
and phrases

uses simple sentences
and phrases

uses simple and a few
compound sentences

uses simple, compound, uses a variety of
and a few complex
simple and compound
sentences
sentences and some
complex sentences

demonstrates little
or no control of time
frames

demonstrates some
accuracy in present
time and little or no
accuracy in other time
frames

is mostly accurate
in present time and
demonstrates limited
accuracy in other time
frames

is mostly accurate in
present time with some
accuracy in other time
frames

narrates and describes
in the present, past, and
future time frames with
general accuracy

demonstrates little or
no control of register

demonstrates minimal
awareness of register,
using mainly the familiar
register

demonstrates an
inconsistent use of
appropriate register;
shifts between formal
and informal register
occur

usually demonstrates
use of appropriate
register, except for
some occasional shifts
between formal and
informal register

usually demonstrates
use of appropriate
register, with consistent
use, despite a few
occasional shifts
between formal and
informal register

EMERGING

PROFICIENT

ADVANCED

LANGUAGE CONTROL

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 123
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Presentational Mode
Present in Writing 8

Communicate through written
presentations

Make Meaning 4

Make meanings from words and
expression

SKILLS
8.A

8.C Understandandapplyappropriateandvariedsyntacticalexpressions
in presentational writing

8.D Expressaperspectivewithdetailsandexamplestoillustrateanopinion
or idea in written presentations
4.B

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 1

Planandresearchanissueortopicforpresentationalwriting

Useappropriatewritingstrategiestocommunicateanideain
presentational writing
8.B

Usewordsappropriateforagivencontext

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 2

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 3

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 4

STUDENT RECEIVING
A SCORE OF 5

writing shows little
use of standard
conventions of the
written language

use of standard
conventions of the
written language is
inconsistent, which may
cause confusion for the
reader

demonstrates generally
consistent use of
standard conventions
of the written language;
errors do not impede
comprehensibility

consistent use of
standard conventions
of the written language;
errors do not impede
comprehensibility

EMERGING

PROFICIENT

ADVANCED

LANGUAGE CONTROL

writing generally shows
no use of standard
conventions of the
written language

CULTURAL AND INTERDISCIPLINARY CONNECTIONS

shows little or no
awareness of cultural
products and practices
of the target culture(s)

identifiesafew
common cultural
products and practices
of the target culture(s)

identifiessome
products and practices
of the target culture(s)
and may identify a few
common perspectives
of the target culture(s)
with inaccuracies

identifiesanddescribes
with some details the
products and practices
of the target culture(s)
and may identify some
perspectives of the
target culture(s) with
some inaccuracies

identifiesthe
relationship among
products, practices,
and perspectives of the
target culture(s)

demonstrates minimal
understanding of basic
content of familiar
interdisciplinary topics
present in the source
materials

demonstrates limited
understanding of some
content of familiar
interdisciplinary topics
in source materials

demonstrates some
understanding of some
content of familiar
interdisciplinary topics
presented in source
materials

demonstrates an
understanding of
much of the content of
familiar interdisciplinary
topics presented in
source materials

demonstrates an
understanding of
most of the content of
familiar interdisciplinary
topics presented in
source materials

generally unable to
identify or compare
geographic, historical,
artistic, social, or
political features
of target culture
communities

minimally able to
identify and compare
geographic, historical,
artistic, social, or
political features
of target culture
communities

identifiesandcompares
a few geographic,
historical, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

compares and
contrasts some
geographic, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

compares and
contrasts a variety of
geographic, artistic,
social, or political
features of target
culture communities

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Achievement Level Descriptions V.1 | 124
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

Instructional
Approaches

Selecting and
Using Course Materials
There are several textbooks designed for AP French
LanguageandCulture.Someprovidewaystoorganize
the course, as well as instructional and assessment
strategies,whileothersspecificallyfocusonpreparing
students for the exam.
Asthecoursedevelopsreal-worldcommunicativeand
cultural competencies, it is critical to integrate a variety
of authentic materials into instruction and assessment.
Authentic materials are texts or resources designed for
native speakers of the language and not created for the
language classroom. Such authentic materials include,
but are not limited to:
§ websites

§ newspapers,magazines,andotherprintedsources

§ short stories

§ blogs and other social media

§ podcasts

§ music

§ videos:films,advertisements,newsprograms,
TV shows

§ radio broadcasts

Teachers can gain insights on teaching French and
network with other French educators by joining
the American Association of Teachers of French
(AATF).Therearestatechaptersofthisorganization.
frenchteachers.org
The American Council on the Teaching of Foreign
Languages(ACTFL)isthelargestorganizationofworld
language educators in the United States. ACTFL’s
standards and approach to instruction, performance,
and assessment are foundational to AP world language
and culture courses and exams. actfl.org
ACTFLoffersmanydocumentsthatinforminstruction
and assessment:
§ World-Readiness Standards for Learning
Languages This document provides “a roadmap
to guide learners to develop competence to

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

communicateeffectivelyandinteractwith
cultural competence to participate in multilingual
communities at home and around the world.”
Thefivegoalareas(Communication,Culture,
Connections, Comparisons, Communities) of
language constitute the standards for language
acquisition. This document is foundational for AP
world language and culture courses.

§ Performance Descriptors for Language Learners
Thisdocumentdefinesanddescribesthelevels
of language performance (Novice, Intermediate,
Advanced) in each of the modes of communication
that result from explicit instruction in a classroom
setting.Itexplainsthedifferencebetween
proficiencyandperformance.APworldlanguage
courses base expectations for performance on
this document.

§ ACTFL Proficiency Guidelines 2012 This site
definesanddescribesthelevelsofproficiency
in speaking,writing,listening,andreadingthat
result from language learned within and beyond
the classroom.

§ NCSSFL-ACTFL Can-Do Statements This
document guides language learners to identify,
set learning goals, and chart their progress
towardlanguageandinterculturalproficiency.The
statementsareorganizedaccordingtothemodes
of communication. This resource helps students
and teachers establish reasonable goals
for progress.

§ The Language Educator This publication for ACTFL
members (four issues per year) provides educators
of all languages and at all levels with
a single, comprehensive source of news
and information.

§ Foreign Language Annals Thisofficialrefereed
journal of current scholarly research in languages
is published by ACTFL and available to
ACTFL members.

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 127
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Instructional Strategies
skills by engaging them in learning activities that allow
them to apply their understanding of course concepts.
Teachers may consider the following strategies as they
plan instruction. In the skills tables that follow these
instructional strategies, we provide some selected
strategies to show how they might be used to develop
specificskills.

The AP French Language and Culture course
framework outlines the concepts and skills students
must master to be successful on the AP Exam. To
addressthoseconceptsandskillseffectively,teachers
should incorporate a variety of instructional approaches
and best practices into their daily lessons and activities.
Teachers can help students develop mastery of these

Receptive Skills: Interpretive Mode (making meaning of written, print, visual,

audiovisual, and audio texts) (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Activating Prior
Knowledge

Providing an opportunity
for students to think about
what they already know
about a concept, place,
person, culture, and so on,
and share their knowledge
with a wider audience.

To prepare students to
encounter new concepts,
places, persons, cultures,
and so on, prior to reading
a text.

Provide an advance
organizerofguiding
questions, a graphic
organizer,orothervisual.

Chalk Talk

Providing an opportunity
for students to respond
to a question about a text
or an excerpt of a text in
writing on the board.

To build skills in responding
spontaneously and to
provide an opportunity for
all students to participate
in the written discussion.

Post a question related to
a text and have students
write their reactions on
the board. Students can
respond to the question
and to one another.

Change of
Perspective

Providing an opportunity
for students to retell a
story from the perspective
ofadifferentcharacter.

To have students retell/
paraphrase a story and
use its structures and
vocabulary in a creative way.

Retell Little Red Riding
Hood from the wolf’s
perspective.

Chunking the Text

Breaking the text into
smaller, manageable units
of sense (e.g., words,
sentences, paragraphs,
whole text) by numbering,
separating phrases,
drawing boxes, and so on.

To reduce the intimidation
factor when encountering
long words, sentences, or
whole texts; to increase
comprehensionofdifficult
or challenging text.

Break apart a text into
several sections for
students to examine
section by section.

Close Reading

Accessing small chunks
of text to read, reread,
mark, and annotate key
passages—wordforword,
sentence by sentence, and
line by line.

To develop comprehensive
understanding by engaging
in one or more focused
readings of a text.

Model how to ask
questions when engaging
with a text and how to
annotate it.

continued on next page
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 128
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

Receptive Skills: Interpretive Mode (making meaning of written, print, visual,

audiovisual, and audio texts) (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Descriptive
Outlining

Analyzingthecontent,
development,organization,
and impact of a text or
audio source by dividing
it into functional chunks
and describing what each
chunk is saying and doing.

To better understand
how a text is put together
and how it conveys its
message.

Students create an outline
of a text or audio source by
dividing it into chunks and
describing the function or
purpose of each chunk in
conveying the message.

Discovering
Vocabulary in
Context

Reading a passage,
noting unfamiliar words,
discovering meaning of
unfamiliar words using
context clues, dictionaries
and/or thesauruses, and
replacing unfamiliar words
with familiar ones.

To facilitate a close
reading of text, the
use of resources,
an understanding of
synonyms, and increased
comprehension of text.

Use contextual clues and
language resources to
understand words and
idiomatic expressions.

Double-Entry
Journal

Creatingatwo-column
journal (also called
Dialectical Journal) with a
student-selectedpassage
in one column and the
student’s response in
the second column (e.g.,
asking questions of the
text, forming personal
responses, interpreting
thetext,reflectingon
the process of making
meaning of the text).

Torespondtoaspecific
passage with comments,
questions, or insights to
foster active involvement
with a text and to facilitate
increased comprehension.

Assign this journal once
per week to encourage
students to read and
comprehend texts on
their own.

Graphic
Organizers

Using a visual
representation for the
organizationofinformation.

To build comprehension
and facilitate discussion by
representing information in
visual form.

Useagraphicorganizer,
suchasaT-chart,Venn
diagram, concept map,
Wordle,KWLchart,
flowchart,ladder,timeline,
story map, etc., to
help students process
informationandorganize
ideas.

Gridding

Providing categories of
information for students to
checkofforfillinasthey
listen.

To guide students as they
listen and have them do
active listening.

Provide a grid with
categories for students to
use as they listen to public
service, transportation, or
school announcements.
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 129
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Receptive Skills: Interpretive Mode (making meaning of written, print, visual,

audiovisual, and audio texts) (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Guided Reading

Identifying a series
of strategies to guide
students through
challenging text (e.g., make
predictions, mark the text,
skim the text).

To help students learn to
use multiple strategies
to make meaning from a
challenging text.

Provide a short passage
for students to read; ask
themtoskimfirstand
state their immediate
impressions of the main
idea. Have them reread
and mark evidence of the
main idea and supporting
details in the text. Finally,
have them predict what will
happen next.

Hashtag Summary

Chunking a text into
sections; then, after
reading each section,
providing a # followed
by a key word(s) or
phrasethatsummarizes
that section of text; the
hashtag summaries then
are reviewed to determine
relationships among the
sections.

To facilitate increased
comprehension of texts
through carefully chosen,
concise language; to begin
recognizingrelationships
among sections of text;
to encourage students to
use their own modes of
language to comprehend
texts.

Provide a text that has
been chunked into
sections, have students
read in pairs and identify
the hashtag for each
chunk, and then discuss
the relationships among
sections based on their
hashtags.

How Reliable Is
This Source?

Evaluating the bias,
credibility, and reliability of
a source.

To help students select
reliable and credible
sources for evidence to
support their arguments.

Definetheterms“bias,”
“credible,” and “reliable,”
and provide examples
of sources that are
considered reliable and
others that are not.

Interactive Word
Wall

Creating an interactive
visual display of vocabulary
words that serves as a
constant reminder of
words and groups of words
as they are introduced,
used, and mastered over
the course of a year.

Toprovideaprintrich environment,
reinforcement of learned
words, a reference for
reading and writing, and
anever-presenttoolfor
building word knowledge
and awareness.

Dedicate a section
of the classroom to
posting useful words
and/or phrases, such as
interrogatives, transitional
expressions, etc.

Interpreting
Visual Data

Building students’ skills
to understand and apply
data presented in a variety
of visual formats, such
as charts, graphs, tables,
maps, and infographics.

To develop student skills
in decoding information
presented visually.

Teach students common
vocabulary found in
charts and graphs, such
as percent, rate, increase,
decrease, range, change,
etc. Provide a variety of
charts, tables, etc. in every
unit to ensure increasing
familiarity with data
presented visually.
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 130
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Receptive Skills: Interpretive Mode (making meaning of written, print, visual,

audiovisual, and audio texts) (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Jigsaw

Readingdifferenttextsor
passages from a single
text, students take on the
role of “experts,” sharing
information from that
reading. Students share
withaspecificgroupand
then return to their initial
group to share their new
knowledge.

Tosummarizeandpresent
information to others in
a way that facilitates an
understanding of a text
(or multiple texts) without
having each student read
the text in its entirety.

Divide students into
groups and assign a text
or section of a text to each
group, who then become
the “experts” on that
sectionofthetext.Once
students have become
familiar with their text, the
members of that group
teach their text to others.

Manipulatives

Using a kinesthetic
approach to making
meaning in which students
are asked to assemble
parts of a whole as a way of
understanding the text.

To provide a tactile and
visual means of examining
text to encourage multiple
ways of understanding
text.

Provide a text cut into
sections and have
students place them in the
most logical order.

Marking the Text

Selecting text by
highlighting, underlining,
and/or annotating for
specificcomponents,
such as main idea, claim,
transitional expressions,
and cohesive devices.

To focus reading for
specificpurposes,suchas
author’s purpose, and to
organizeinformationfrom
selections; to facilitate
reexamination of a text.

Usedifferenthighlighter
colorstoemphasize
differentaspectsofa
text (e.g., transitional
expressions, main idea,
claim, evidence to support
the claim).

Metacognitive
Markers

Responding to text with a
system of cueing marks,
in which students use a ?
for questions about the
text, an ! for reactions
relatedtothetext,an*for
comments about the text,
and underlining to signal
key ideas.

To track responses to texts
and use those responses
as a point of departure
for talkingorwriting
about texts.

Use a system of symbols
(?,!,*,etc.)tohavestudents
engage with a text.

Notetaking

Creating a record of
information while listening
to a speaker or while
reading a text.

To facilitate active listening
and/or reading, to record
andorganizeideasthat
assist in processing
information.

Have students use Cornell
notes,T-notes,keywords,
or key ideas to take notes.

Predicting

Making guesses about
the content of a text by
examining titles, visuals,
captions,headings/subheadings, and/or thinking
ahead about ideas that
may be presented, based
on evidence in the text.

To help students become
actively involved,
interested, and mentally
prepared to understand
ideas.

Have students predict
what a text will be about
by looking at the title and
visual.

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 131
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Receptive Skills: Interpretive Mode (making meaning of written, print, visual,

audiovisual, and audio texts) (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Previewing

Examining a text’s
structure, features, layout,
visuals, and so on, prior to
reading.

To gain familiarity with the
text, make connections
to the text, and extend
prior knowledge to set a
purpose for reading.

Explain and provide
examples to illustrate how
various types of texts are
commonly structured, such
as recipes, advertisements,
articles, charts, graphs,
tables, infographics, etc.

QHT

Expanding prior knowledge
of vocabulary words by
marking words with a Q,
H, or T (Q signals words
students do not know; H
signals words students
have heard and might be
able to identify; T signals
words students know well
enough to teach to their
peers).

To allow students to build
on their prior knowledge
of words, to provide a
forum for peer teaching
and learning of new
words, and to serve as a
prereading exercise to aid
in comprehension.

When reading or listening,
ask students to identify
unfamiliar words, words
they think they might know,
and words they own. Use
theidentifiedwordsto
foster comprehension of
the text and vocabulary
acquisition.

Questioning the
Text

Developing literal,
inferential, and universal
questions about a text.

To engage more actively
with texts, read with
greater purpose and focus,
and ultimately answer
questions to gain greater
insight into the text.

Each student writes one
literal, one inferential, and
one universal question to
ask others about a text.

Read Aloud

Reading aloud in class
while pausing to check for
understanding.

To actively engage
students in reading,
to check where they
may be struggling,
and to clarify potential
misunderstandings.

Read a text aloud to a class
and pause occasionally to
check for understanding.

Sentence
Unpacking

Analyzinghowthe
language of a sentence
works by chunking the
sentence into functional
sections and describing
what those sections do.

To understand the
functionsandeffectsof
differentlanguagechoices.

Select an opening line from
a text and break it down
into component parts.

Sequencing a Text

Dividing a text into
sections and having
students reassemble the
text in order.

To have students
demonstrate
understanding of a text, to
encourage logical thinking,
and to have students
demonstrate sequencing.

Provide a text cut into
sections and have
students place them in the
most logical order.

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 132
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Receptive Skills: Interpretive Mode (making meaning of written, print, visual,

audiovisual, and audio texts) (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Skimming/
Scanning

Skimming by rapid or
superficialreadingofa
text to form an overall
impression or to obtain
a general understanding
of the material; scanning
focuses on key words,
phrases,orspecificdetails
and provides speedy
recognition of information.

To quickly form an overall
impression prior to an
in-depthstudyofatext;to
answerspecificquestions
or quickly locate targeted
information or detail in a
text.

Give students a limited
amount of time to skim
or scan a text, and have
them identify text type,
purpose, main idea, etc., as
appropriate.

SOAPSTone*

Analyzingtextby
discussing and identifying
Speaker, Occasion,
Audience, Purpose,
Subject, and Tone.

To use a process to identify
and understand aspects of
a text.

Provideagraphicorganizer
listing speaker, occasion,
audience, purpose,
subject, and tone and have
students complete it as
they read. Use a completed
organizerasabasisto
discuss the text in class.

Summarizing/
Paraphrasing

Restating in one’s own
words the main idea or
essential information
expressed in a text,
whether it be narration,
dialogue, or informational
text.

To facilitate
comprehension and recall
of a text.

Provide a text or audio and
have students retell the
content in their own words,
orhavethemsummarize
the content.

Think Aloud

Talkingthroughadifficult
passage or task by using
a form of metacognition,
whereby the reader
expresses how they have
made sense of the text.

Toreflectonhowreaders
make meaning of
challenging texts.

Model aloud how you make
meaning of a text as you
read. In other words, share
the questions you ask
yourself when you engage
withadifficulttext.

Vocabulary
Notebook

Using a designated format,
such as a notebook,
journal, or personal list,
to maintain an ongoing
list of vocabulary words,
definitions,andconnection
to academic study.

To facilitate and sustain
a systematic process of
vocabulary development.

Maintain a notebook
of vocabulary items
encountered over the
course of the academic
year.

What’s Next?

Predicting what would
happen next at the end of
a story.

Students provide a
continuation or alternate
ending to a story.

After reading a short story,
students continue the
storyorprovideadifferent
ending written in the style
of the author.
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 133
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

Productive Skills: Writing and Speaking Strategies (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Adding (Revision)

AlsocalledPlus1—Making
conscious choices to
enhance or elaborate a
text by adding additional
words, phrases, sentences,
or ideas.

Torefineandclarifythe
writer’s or speaker’s
thoughts during revision
and/or drafting.

Students examine a writing
or speaking sample and
suggest ways to provide
additional elaboration.

Deleting
(Revision)

Providing clarity and
cohesiveness for a text by
eliminating words, phrases,
sentences, or ideas.

Torefineandclarifythe
writer’s or speaker’s
thoughts during revision
and/or drafting.

Students examine a writing
or speaking sample and
suggest ways to be more
succinct.

Ask the Expert
(or Students as
Experts)

Students are assigned as
“experts” on concepts or
skills they have mastered;
groups rotate through
the expert stations to
learn about concepts or
skills they have not yet
mastered.

Provides opportunities
for students to share
their knowledge and learn
from one another. Gives
opportunities for students
to engage in interpersonal
and presentational
speaking.

Students present on a
topic related to the unit
that they have researched.

Brainstorming

Usingaflexiblebut
deliberate process of
articulating multiple ideas
in a short period of time.

To generate ideas,
concepts, or key words
that provide a focus and/
orestablishorganization
as part of the prewriting or
revision process.

Generate a list of ideas
related to a topic. Generate
a semantic map or mind
map related to a topic.

Checklists

Using a checklist of things
to consider or remember
to do while students write.

Forfocusedself-orpeerevaluation.

Use a checklist for writing
an essay, including the
following elements: thesis
statement, development
of topic, conclusion,
organization/flowofideas,
proofreading pass to correct
for conventions of written
language,etc.Orprovidea
checklist of all the elements
of each exam task model
when students practice.

Circumlocution

Students keep talking or
writing even when they
are lacking vocabulary
by using strategies to
“talk around” what they’re
missing.

To keep students using
the target language and
to help them maintain
communication despite
gaps in vocabulary.

Play $100,000 Pyramid,
a game that builds skills
incircumlocution.One
student describes items
to their team members to
identify. The game is won by
the team that accumulates
the most points.
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 134
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Productive Skills: Writing and Speaking Strategies (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Debate

Engaging in an informal or
formal argumentation of
an issue.

To provide students with an
opportunity to collect and
orally present evidence and
reasoning for arguments
on a proposition or issue.
To have students think
deeply about multiple
perspectives. To have
students engage in
presentational and
spontaneous interpersonal
speaking.

Have students read
a selected text on a
controversial topic.
Assign a position for
each student to defend.
Students debate from
their assigned perspective
and then switch sides and
debate from the opposite
viewpoint.

Drafting

Composing a text in its
initial form.

To incorporate
brainstormed or initial
ideas into a written format.

Draft emails, letters,
essays, original stories,
etc., as a way to gather and
organizeinitialideasand
seek feedback.

Fishbowl (Inner/
Outer Circles)

Discussingspecifictopics
within groups; some
students will form the
inner circle and model
appropriate discussion
techniques, while an outer
circle of students will listen,
respond, and evaluate.
Itcouldbeatext-based
discussion or not.

To provide students with
an opportunity to engage
in a formal discussion and
to experience roles both
as participant and active
listener; students also
have the responsibility of
supporting their opinions
and responses.

Provide students with a
text (print or audio) on a
controversial topic related
to the unit and provide
questions for discussion.
Group students into an
inner circle and an outer
circle. The inner circle
actively discusses the
issue using the questions,
while the outer circle
listens; later, the entire
groupsummarizesthe
discussion.

Five Square

FourSquarewithafifth
option in the center of the
room. Divide the room into
answer options and allow
students to stand in the
area representing their
answer.Thefifthareaisthe
center of the room.

To practice answering
multiple-choicequestions
and providing rationales,
including textual evidence
for answers.

Give students a passage
fromamultiple-choice
test. They work in groups
to answer the questions
and then go to their
answer “corners.” Each
answer group provides a
rationale for their answer.
If someone from the group
goestoadifferentcorner,
they defend their choice to
deviate from the group.
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 135
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Productive Skills: Writing and Speaking Strategies (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Generating
Questions

Clarifying and developing
ideas by asking questions
of the draft; may be part of
self-editingorpeer-editing.

To clarify and develop
ideas in a draft; used during
drafting and as part of
writer response.

Questions for students to
ask while reviewing a draft:
§ Did I respond
appropriately to the
prompt?

§ Did I provide all the
required information?

§ How well have I
controlled grammar and
verb tenses?

§ Ismyworkwellorganized?

§ What other details
could I add?

Gradual Release
Writing or
Speaking

Project an essay prompt.
The whole class brainstorms
on what the prompt is
asking and initial ways to
respond to the prompt.
Small group/paired writing
of an outline to answer
the prompt. Individual
preparation of one body
paragraph. Then, students
come back with partners/
group to discuss and assess
their paragraphs. Finally,
students individually write
finishedessays.

To teach students how to
deconstruct the prompt,
findsupportingevidence,
andorganizetheiressays.

Take an AP writing prompt
and go through the
process with students.
This can be used to help
students deconstruct any
prompt.

Graphic
Organizers

Representing ideas and
information visually (e.g.,
Venndiagrams,flowcharts,
cluster maps).

To provide a visual system
fororganizingmultiple
ideas, details, and/or
textual support to be
included in a piece of
writing.

Useagraphicorganizer,
suchasaT-chart,Venn
diagram, concept map,
Wordle,KWLchart,
flowchart,ladder,
timeline, story map,
etc., to help students
process information and
organize ideas.

Guided Writing

Modeling the writing that
students are expected
to produce, the teacher
guides students through
theorganization,
generation of ideas, and
revision of texts before
students are asked to write.

To demonstrate the
process of writing by
modeling the construction,
revision, and/or process of
crafting texts.

Have students engage in
collaborative paragraph
reconstruction by working
with a partner or in a small
group. Students should
considertheorganization
of ideas, elaboration
of ideas, transitions,
vocabulary, grammar
and syntax, and writing
conventions.
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 136
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Productive Skills: Writing and Speaking Strategies (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Inner and Outer
Circles

Providing the opportunity
for students to speak
spontaneously with many
people.

To develop students’ skills
in spontaneous speaking
and active listening.

Have students form an inner
and an outer circle facing
one another. Each student
asks the person in front of
themthreetofiveprepared
questions related to a topic
in the unit, and then both
circles rotate. This continues
until students end up with
their original partners.

Marking the Draft

Interacting with the draft
version of a piece of writing
by highlighting, underlining,
color coding, and annotating
to indicate revision ideas.

To encourage focused,
reflectivethinkingabout
revising drafts.

Students can complete
this task with a partner.

Oral Reading

Reading aloud one’s own
text or the texts of others
(e.g., echo reading, choral
reading, paired readings).

To share one’s own work
or the work of others; to
buildfluencyandincrease
confidenceinpresentingto
a group.

Have students share their
own stories, personal
narratives, and poems by
reading them aloud.

Outlining a
Presentation

Using a system of numerals
and letters to identify
topics and supporting
details and to ensure an
appropriate balance of
ideas.

To generate ideas,
concepts, and/or key words
that provide a focus and/or
establishorganizationprior
to writing an initial draft
and/or during the revision
process.

Outliningcanbeusedfor
planning both oral and
written presentations.

Presentation
Strategies

Using verbal and nonverbal
strategies in spoken
presentations to connect
with the audience.

Tomakeeffectivespoken
presentations and to fully
engage the audience.

Review the verbal and
nonverbal strategies
foreffectivespoken
presentations, then watch
some clips of famous
people presenting and have
students identify which
strategies they are using
to engage the audience.
Encourage students to
incorporate at least one of
these strategies into their
next presentation.
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 137
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Productive Skills: Writing and Speaking Strategies (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Quickwrite or
Quicktalk

Writing or talking for a
short,specificamountof
time about a designated
topic related to a text.

To quickly generate
multiple ideas that can be
turned into longer pieces
of writing at a later time
(may be considered as part
of the drafting process).
Gets students used to
writing and speaking
spontaneously.

Quickwrite: Give students
a topic and let them write
aboutitforfiveminutes
maximum.
Quicktalk: Give students a
topic and let them speak
about it to a partner or
a small group for 30–60
seconds.

Revisiting Prior
Work

Looking through a
collection of previously
completed work to
identify successes and
challenges that may
have been encountered
with particular formats,
conventions, style, word
choice, and so on.

To build on prior
experience in preparation
for a new piece of writing
and/or to revise a previous
piece of writing. This
is a good strategy for
improving essay writing.

Have students review prior
argumentative essays as
they begin to draft a new
one.

Role Play

Students assume a
role and engage in a
conversation with another
person.

To encourage creativity
and spontaneity in
speaking.

Studentsrole-playto
represent the conversation
that two characters in a
story have the next time
they meet.
Students select a
conversation prompt out
of a hat and conduct a
role-play.

Scoring Guidelines
Application

Examine student writing
samples using AP
assessment scoring
guidelines.

To build student
understanding of how they
are assessed on the AP
Exam.

Use student samples and
the scoring guidelines
posted on AP Central.

Self-Editing/ PeerEditing

Students work with a
partner to examine each
other’s work to identify
content,organization,and
mechanics that can be
improved.

To provide a systematic
process for revising and
editing a written text.

Provide a checklist of
targeted items or issues
that students should look
for when reviewing a peer’s
work.
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 138
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Productive Skills: Writing and Speaking Strategies (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Speed Dating

Students interview several
partners regarding their
views on a given topic.

To provide practice in
interpersonal speaking.

Generate a list of interview
questions on a topic
related to the unit for
students to use. Students
begin with a partner,
interview them using the
questions for one minute
(time can be varied), and
then they move to a new
partner. Debrief at the end
tofindcommonresponses.

Sketching

Drawing or sketching
ideas, including sketching
a scene or creating a
storyboard, to demonstrate
comprehension and to
generate spontaneous
speaking.

To generate and/or clarify
ideasbyvisualizingthem;
may be part of prewriting,
then using visuals for
retelling the story.

Storyboard: Have students
listen to a story and sketch
the scenes. Afterward,
have them use their
completed storyboards to
spontaneously retell the
story.

Small-Group
Scoring

Working in small groups,
students use the scoring
rubrics to score sample
essays and provide a
rationale/explanation for
their score.

Torecognizethe
differencesinhigh-scoring/
low-scoringessaysandto
use the strengths in revising
their own writing.

Use a variety of prompts
and released sample
essays to work on for
small-groupscoring.

Socratic Seminar

Having a focused
discussion of an essential
question, topic, or selected
text in which students
ask questions of each
other; questions initiate
a conversation that
continues with a series of
responses and additional
questions.

To help students formulate
questions that address
issues (in lieu of simply
stating their opinions)
to facilitate their own
discussion and arrive at
a new understanding;
students also have
the responsibility of
supporting their opinions
and responses using
specifictextualevidence.

Students read a text on
a controversial topic and
develop questions about
the topic. In a circle, they
ask their questions and
others respond, giving their
opinions and supporting
them through evidence
from the text.

Substituting

Replacing original words or
phrases in a text with new
words or phrases without
changing the meaning.

To build vocabulary
through the use of
synonyms.

In pairs, give students a
short text with various
words underlined and have
them replace those words
with synonyms.
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 139
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Productive Skills: Writing and Speaking Strategies (cont'd)
Strategy

Definition

Purpose

Sample Activity

Think-Pair-Share

Considering and thinking
about a topic or question
and then writing what has
been learned; pairing with
a peer or a small group to
share ideas; sharing ideas
and discussion with a
larger group.

To construct meaning
about a topic or question;
to test thinking in relation
to the ideas of others; to
prepare for a discussion
with a larger group.

Provide a text and a
question about the text.
Students read the text,
then provide an answer to
the question. They then
share their responses with
a partner or with a small
group. Finally, they share
their group’s answers with
the class.

Two-Minute
Speech

Givingaspontaneoustwominute speech on a topic.

To build students’
confidenceandabilitiesin
spontaneous speaking.

Generate a variety of
speech topics related
to the unit of study or
of general interest to
adolescents. Students
select a topic and then
havefiveminutesto
prepare their talk, using a
single note card with only
key words and key phrases,
if needed.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 140
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Developing Course Skills
Throughout the AP French Language and Culture course, students develop skills that are fundamental to the learning
ofalanguageandcultureandtocommunicatingeffectivelyacrossthethreemodesofcommunication.Sincethese
disciplinarypracticescourseskillsrepresentthecomplexlanguageandcommunicationskillsthatadeptlanguagelearnersneedtodevelop,studentswillbenefitfrommultipleopportunitiestodevelopandpracticetheseskillsina
scaffoldedmanner.TeachersandstudentscanalsorefertotheAchievementLevelDescriptionsonp.105todetermine
how well they are performing a given skill and what students need to demonstrate to improve to the next level.

Skill Category 1: Comprehend Written, Audio, Audiovisual,
and Visual Text
The comprehension of texts is essential to learning
a language and culture because it represents
foundational input that is necessary to produce
language. Much of the course content is delivered
through print, written, visual, audiovisual, and audio
texts; therefore, students must be able to engage with
and comprehend information conveyed in a wide variety
of interdisciplinary texts.

Comprehending text requires students to be skilled at
decoding unfamiliar language, understand vocabulary
in context, and use contextual clues when dealing with
challenging text. Teachers can encourage students to
persevere and practice, and they can address issues
by the careful selection of texts and by designing
appropriatelyscaffoldedinstruction.
Below are some suggested strategies for instruction.

Skill Category 1: Comprehend written, audio, audiovisual, and visual text
Sample
Instructional
Strategies

Skills

Key Questions

Sample Activity

1.A: Describe the literal

What is the main idea and
what are the most important
supporting details?

Provideaflyerforacultural
event and ask students to
identify the main idea and
list the most important
details.

Marking the Text

1.B: Describe data

What patterns do you see in
the data?

Provide a graph about leisure
activities and ask students to
identify trends by age group.

Interpreting Visual Data

meaning of the text

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 141
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Skill Category 2: Make Interdisciplinary and Cultural Connections
Oneofthe“5Cs”(Communication,Culture,
Connections, Comparisons, and Communities) that
is foundational to ACTFL’s standards for language
learning is “connections,” that is, making connections
among interdisciplinary and/or cultural topics. In
AP world language classrooms, the content is
interdisciplinary and culturally oriented by nature, and
what is studied is related to other disciplines that go
well beyond the language classroom.
Teachers can work with students to develop their
ability to make cultural connections by helping them
torecognizeandunderstandculturalreferences
in texts. When working with interdisciplinary texts,
teachers can provide opportunities for students to

make connections with prior learning. They can help
students understand the context of a text and teach
strategies for students to use context to understand
the text. Teachers can also keep students’ interests
in mind as they choose texts and materials to work
with, as students are more likely to persevere with a
text that engages them. It’s a good idea to actively
encouragestudentstomakecross-disciplinaryand
cultural connections by using activating strategies,
suchasadvanceorganizersorguidingquestions.
Consistent exposure to interdisciplinary and cultural
topicswillbuildconfidenceandcompetenceinthe
skill of making connections during the course.
Below are some suggested strategies for instruction.

Skill Category 2: Make interdisciplinary and cultural connections
Sample
Instructional
Strategies

Skills

Key Questions

Sample Activity

2.A: Make cultural

What does the source reveal
about the target culture?

Provide a text that describes
a cultural event and guide
students to determine what
can be inferred about the
culture, based on the event.

DescriptiveOutline

2.B: Make connections in

What do you learn about
another discipline from this
source?

Provideatextthatoffers
new learning in an academic
discipline and guide them
to understand it through
contextual clues, cognates,
vocabulary in context,
interpreting any visuals, and
guiding questions.

Skimming/Scanning or
Chunking the Text

connections

and across disciplines

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 142
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Skill Category 3: Interpret the Content of Written or Audio Text
Interpreting a text goes beyond comprehending
its literal meaning. It requires students to identify
distinguishing textual features (purpose, audience,
point of view, style, theme, moral, tone), infer
implied meanings, and identify and understand
culturalnuances.Studentsalsoneedtorecognize
relationships between texts.
In interpreting content, students will need to employ
the same skills they use for comprehending and
makinginterdisciplinaryorculturalconnections—

decoding unfamiliar language, working on
understanding vocabulary in context, using
contextual clues, and persevering with challenging
text. Teachers can help students by selecting texts
that incrementally introduce challenging content,
designingappropriatelyscaffoldedinstructionand
providingwell-craftedguidingquestionsthatwilllead
students to discover the more abstract elements
of a text.
Below are some suggested strategies for instruction.

Skill Category 3: Interpret the content of written or audio texts
Sample
Instructional
Strategies

Skills

Key Questions

Sample Activity

3.A: Interpret the

For whom was the text
created and why?

Provide an audio source and
guide students to identify
the intended audience, the
purpose, and point of view
through guiding questions.

Close Reading or Close
Listening

3.B: Interpret the

What is implied by the text?

Select a text that contains
inferences. Demonstrate
close/critical reading
techniques (asking deep
questions, annotating the
text to indicate evidence,
interpreting vocabulary in
context) to show students
how to have “a conversation
with the text” that will allow
them to interpret it.

Hashtag Summary

distinguishing features
of a text

meaning of a text

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 143
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Skill Category 4: Make Meanings from Words and Expressions
Making meaning from unfamiliar words or expressions
is essential to demonstrating comprehension of any
text. While students do not have to understand every
word to understand a text, they need to become adept
at decoding unfamiliar vocabulary by using context
clues that appear. Students need encouragement to
persist and take risks when engaging with a source. This
may mean withholding correction as students make
a few errors when they encounter unfamiliar words
or expressions.

Teachers can encourage students’ growth in making
meanings from words and expressions through
consistent practice with texts that contain unknown
vocabulary and have rich examples of idiomatic and
cultural expressions. Teachers can guide students to
decodewordsbylookingatprefixes,suffixes,word
stems, and radicals, as well as looking for context clues,
word derivations, and cultural concepts.
Below are some suggested strategies for instruction.

Skill Category 4: Make meanings from words and expressions
Sample
Instructional
Strategies

Skills

Key Questions

Sample Activity

4.A: Determine the

How can you determine
what this word means?

By using a think aloud,
model for students how to
determine the meaning of
unfamiliar vocabulary in a
text by using contextual
clues, word derivation,
decoding the parts of
the word, and/or cultural
concepts.

Think Aloud

4.B: Use words

Is the vocabulary you’re
using colloquial or
academic?

After students have
produced a written text,
have them replace words
or phrases they have used
with synonyms of a more
academic nature. Students
may use a dictionary,
thesaurus, or other sources.

Substituting

meaning of familiar and
unfamiliar words

appropriate for a given
context

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 144
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Skill Category 5: Communicate Interpersonally by Speaking
with Others
Learning to speak with others constitutes the main
reason students enroll in language and culture courses.
Spontaneousspeechisoneofthemostdifficultskills
for students to achieve. Therefore, it is critical to provide
students with multiple and ongoing opportunities to
speak with each other.
The more students practice this skill, the more likely
students will produce language that is comprehensible
to native speakers of the target language. Students
need opportunities to speak the language in authentic

situations in order to progress beyond using
memorizedwordsandphrases.Theyneedtoworkon
communicatingmessageseffectively,practicelistening
to the spoken language to increase comprehension,
and become comfortable speaking spontaneously.
Teachers can establish a classroom culture in which
studentsfeelcomfortabletaking risks,providingtimely
and directed feedback that encourages students to
continue to practice for improvement.
Below are some suggested strategies for instruction.

Skill Category 5: Communicate interpersonally by speaking with others
Sample
Instructional
Strategies

Skills

Key Questions

Sample Activity

5.A: Understand and

How can you continue a
conversation if you do not
knowaspecificword?

Describe an object without
using the actual name of the
object.

Circumlocution

5.B: Understand and

What transitional words and
cohesive devices can be
used to link sentences for
longer conversations?

Listen to a conversation
and have students identify
transitional works and
cohesive devices.

Close Listening

apply appropriate
communication
strategies in
interpersonal speaking

apply appropriate
and varied syntactical
expressions in
interpersonal speaking

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 145
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Skill Category 6: Communicate Interpersonally by Writing to Others
Being able to communicate with others through writing
constitutes another main reason why students enroll
in language and culture courses. Written interpersonal
communicationisanimportantreal-lifeskillto
develop within the language classroom. Therefore, it is
critical to provide students with multiple and ongoing
opportunities to write to others in both the formal and
informal registers.
The more students practice writing texts, notes, emails,
and letters, the more likely they will produce written
language that is comprehensible to native speakers of
the target language.

§ comprehending the incoming message

§ using the appropriate register

§ providingrelevantandsufficientinformation,
elaboration, and details

§ developinganorganized,cohesivemessage

Teachers can help students by actively teaching all
aspects of successful interpersonal writing, breaking
downthewritingtaskintoastep-by-stepprocess,and
providing timely and directed feedback that encourages
students to continue to practice for improvement.
Below are some suggested strategies for instruction.

In order to communicate successfully in the
interpersonal mode, students need to practice:
§ building their vocabulary

§ communicating their message using accurate
grammatical and syntactic structures

Skill Category 6: Communicate interpersonally by writing to others
Sample
Instructional
Strategies

Skills

Key Questions

Sample Activity

6.A: Understand and

Have you selected the
correct register and used it
consistently?

Analyzewritten
interpersonal
communications with an
eye on how register is
addressed and to review
all the aspects involved in
register.

Self-Editing/
Peer-Editing

6.B: Understand and

Have you proofread your
message to correct errors in
grammar and syntax as well
as spelling, accents, and
punctuation?

After students have written a
message, provide an editing
checklist and have them work
withapartnertopeer-edit
one another’s work.

Self-Editing/
Peer-Editing

apply appropriate
communication
strategies in
interpersonal writing

apply appropriate
and varied syntactical
expressions in
interpersonal writing

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 146
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Skill Category 7: Communicate Through Spoken Presentations
Presenting information orally is an important
way that students demonstrate their ability to
communicateeffectivelyinthelanguage.Spoken
presentations can be challenging to students, as they
need to communicate ideas related to a variety of
interdisciplinaryandculturaltopicsinanorganized
andengagingmanner.Manystudentsfindspeaking
in front of a group to be challenging and stressful.
They are apprehensive about making mistakes
andeffectivelycommunicatingtheirmessage.The
ability to carefully plan and outline key ideas and
main points is critical so that students will present
informationwithoutrelyingonmemorizingorreading
their presentations. Therefore, teachers should give
students multiple and ongoing opportunities to give
oral presentations.
In order to be successful in their oral presentations,
students need to

§ employ vocabulary and grammatical and syntactical
structurestoeffectivelyconveytheirthoughts

§ organizetheirinformationtodeliveraneffective
presentation

§ use strong transitional expressions and cohesive
devices that guide the listener’s understanding

Students should also be encouraged to take risks,
as they will likely make errors in their presentations.
By practicing these skills regularly, students will
becomemorecomfortableandconfidentinpresenting
orally. Students should receive feedback that helps
them improve not only the content and accuracy of
theirpresentationbutalsotheirconfidenceintheir
presentational skills. As the year progresses, they will
acquire more interdisciplinary vocabulary and more
complex language structures to support longer and
more sophisticated oral presentations.
Below are some suggested strategies for instruction.

Skill Category 7: Communicate through spoken presentations.
Sample
Instructional
Strategies

Skills

Key Questions

Sample Activity

7.A: Plan and research

Haveyouorganized
the main ideas and
supporting details for your
presentation?

Teacher provides a graphic
organizerortemplateto
help students plan their
presentations.

OutliningGraphic
Organizers

7.B: Use appropriate

How have you made your
presentation engaging for
your audience?

In class, brainstorm a list
ofeffectivepresentation
techniques. Then watch
some online presentations
and observe what makes
eachpresentationeffective
or not.

Presentation
Strategies

7.C: Use appropriate
language and
vocabulary for the
intended audience in
presentational speaking

Haveyouincludedeffective
transitional expressions and
cohesive devices to guide
your audience through your
presentation?

Teachers can post
transitional expressions on
a word wall in the classroom
and consistently direct
students to them.

Word Wall

7.D: Express a

Have you clearly expressed
your opinions and
supported them with details
and examples?

Teachers can provide
formulas for expressing and
defending opinions and have
students practice using them
by asking them to quickly
state and justify their opinions
on a variety of topics.

Debate

an issue or topic for
presentational speaking

vocal and visual
strategies to
communicate an idea in
presentational speaking

perspective with details
and examples to
illustrate an opinion or
idea in presentational
speaking

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 147
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Skill Category 8: Communicate Through Written Presentations
Presenting information in writing is an important way
that students demonstrate their ability to communicate
effectivelyinthelanguage.Presentationalwritingcan
be challenging to students, as it is among the more
academic areas of language production, in which
studentsareoftenrequiredtoeffectivelyexpressand
explain complex ideas and support them with evidence
from sources. The ability to conduct research, evaluate
sources, and then extract relevant information from
sourcesisanimportantpartofcreatingeffective
written presentations. Therefore, it is critical to provide
students with multiple and ongoing opportunities to
present their ideas in written form.
In order to be successful in their written presentations,
students need to:
§ employ academic vocabulary

§ useeffectivegrammaticalandsyntactical
structures

§ developorganizationalskills

§ effectivelyusetransitionalexpressions
and cohesive devices to guide the reader’s
understanding

§ include relevant evidence from sources

Teachers can help students by actively teaching a
writingprocess,showingthemhowtocreateastep-bystep plan to produce a written presentation that is well
organizedandhasalogicalflow.Studentsmustalso
take the time to proofread their work to correct errors in
organization,grammar,syntax,andmechanics.
Inaddition,studentsneedtoknowhowtofind,
evaluate, and cite sources and how to use sources
togainacademicanddiscipline-specificvocabulary.
Teachers can provide targeted feedback on
grammatical and syntactical errors to improve the
comprehensibility of students’ work; however, this
should be in addition to providing directive feedback
on ways students can improve the strength of their
argument. There are numerous sample essays on AP
Central that teachers can access.
The more students practice these skills, the more likely
itisthattheywillbecomeeffectiveincommunicating
their ideas in writing. With practice and feedback, they
willacquiretheacademicvocabulary,organizational
skills, and appropriate conventions of written language
to create written presentations.
Below are some suggested strategies for instruction.

Skill Category 8: Communicate through written presentations (cont'd)
Sample
Instructional
Strategies

Skills

Key Questions

Sample Activity

8.A: Plan and research

How do you gather
information to prepare a
presentation?

Teacher leads a discussion
on what makes a source
reliable. Students search
for reliable sources on a
specifictopic.

How Reliable Is This
Source?

8.B: Use appropriate

How do you develop an
organizedpresentation?

Students complete a graphic
organizerfororganizingan
essay.

Using a Graphic
OrganizerorOutlining

an issue or topic for
presentational writing

writing strategies to
communicate an idea in
presentational writing

continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 148
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Skill Category 8: Communicate through written presentations (cont'd)
Sample
Instructional
Strategies

Skills

Key Questions

Sample Activity

8.C: Understand and

How do you incorporate a
variety of sentence types in
a presentation?

Students review a draft of
their writing and determine
ways to enhance or
elaborate a text by adding
additional words, phrases,
sentences, or ideas.

Self-Editing/
Peer-Editing

8.D: Express a

How do you support your
ideas in a presentation?

Students incorporate
evidence using researched
reliable sources to support
their ideas.

Close Reading

apply appropriate
and varied syntactical
expressions in
presentational writing

perspective with
details and examples
to illustrate an opinion
or idea in written
presentations

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Instructional Approaches V.1 | 149
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

Exam
Information

Exam Overview
The AP French Language and Culture Exam assesses student understanding
of the skills and learning objectives outlined in the course framework. The
exam is just over 3 hours long and includes 65 multiple-choice questions and
4 free-response questions. The details of the exam, including exam weighting
and timing, can be found below:

Section
I

Number of
Questions

Exam
Weighting

Timing

30

23%

40 minutes

35

27%

55 minutes

4

50%

88 minutes

Question 1: Email Reply

12.5%

15 minutes

Question 2: Argumentative Essay

12.5%

55 minutes

Question 3: Conversation

12.5%

Question 4: Cultural Comparison

12.5%

Question Type
Part A: Multiple-choice questions
Interpretive Communication: Print texts

I

Part B: Multiple-choice questions
Interpretive Communication: Print and
audio texts combined and audio texts

II

Free-response questions

18 minutes

The exam assesses themes and skills developed in each of the six units:
1. Families in Different Societies
2. The Influence of Language and Culture on Identity
3. Influences of Beauty and Art
4. How Science and Technology Affect Our Lives
5. Factors That Impact the Quality of Life
6. Environmental, Political, and Societal Challenges

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 153
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

How Student Learning Is
Assessed on the AP Exam
AlleightAPFrenchLanguageandCultureskillcategoriesareassessedoneveryAPExaminthemultiple-choice
and free-responsesectionsasdetailed below.
Multiple-Choice Section

Free-Response Section

Skill Category 1:
Comprehend Text

Thisskillcategoryencompassestwospecificskills—
describe the literal meaning of the text and describe
quantitativedata.Almostallofthemultiple-choicesets
will include one or more questions that assess one of
thesetwoskills.Approximately20–30%ofthequestions
assess this skill category.

Text comprehension is assessed
inthefirstthreefree-response
questions (Email Reply,
Argumentative Essay, and
Conversation).

Skill Category 2:
Make Connections

This skill category includes making cultural and
interdisciplinaryconnections.Mostofthemultiplechoice sets will include one or more questions that
assessoneofthesetwo skills.Approximately30–40%
of the questions assess this skill category.

Making both cultural and
interdisciplinary connections is
assessed in all four
free-responsequestions.

Skill Category 3:
Interpret Text

This skill category includes interpreting distinguishing
features and the meaning of a text. Almost all of the nine
multiple-choicesetswillincludeoneormorequestions
thatassesstextinterpretation.Approximately30-40%
of the questions assess this skill category.

Text interpretation is assessed in
Free-responsequestion2:
Argumentative Essay.

Skill Category 4:
Make Meanings

Skill 4.A Determine the meaning of familiar and
unfamiliar words is the only skill in this category that
is directly assessed. It is assessed in most of the
multiple-choicesets,withapproximately10–15%ofthe
questions assessing this skill.

Allfourfree-responsequestions
assessmaking meanings.

Skill Category 5:
SpeaktoOthers

Skill 5.A The skills associated with speaking to others are
notdirectlyassessedinthemultiple-choicesection.

Free-responsequestion3:
Conversation assesses the
skills associatedwithspeaking
to others.

Skill Category 6:
WritetoOthers

Skill 6.A The skills associated with writing to others are not
directlyassessedinthemultiple-choicesection.

Free-responsequestion1:
Email Reply assesses the skills
associated with writing to others.

Skill Category 7:
PresentOrally

Skill 7.A Plan and research an issue or topic for
presentationalspeakingisassessedinthemultiplechoice section.

Free-responsequestion4:Cultural
Comparison assesses the skills
associated with oral presentations.

SkillCategory8:
Present in Writing

Skill8.APlanandresearchanissueortopicfor
presentationalwritingisassessedinthemultiplechoice section.

Free-responsequestion2:
Argumentative Essay assesses
the skillsassociatedwithwritten
presentations.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 154
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

Section I: Multiple-Choice
ThefirstsectionoftheAPFrenchLanguageandCultureExamincludes65multiple-choicequestionspresentedinnine
sets.Eachsetcontainsoneortwostimulusmaterials—mostlyauthenticsources—andfrom5to11questions.The
followingchartlaysoutthedifferenttypesofstimulusmaterials,thenumberofquestionsperset,andtheskillsthat
may be assessed in each set. The order below represents the relative order of each set on the exam.
Stimulus Type

Number of
Questions

Skills Assessed by Set

Promotional
material

5

2.A

Literary text

7

1.A

Article and chart

11

1.A

Letter

7

1.A

Audio report and
article

10

1.A

Conversation
and chart

7

1.A

Interview

5

1.A

Instructions

5

1.A

Makeculturalconnections
Makeconnectionsinandacrossdisciplines
3.A Interpretthedistinguishingfeaturesofatext
3.B Interpretthemeaningofatext
2.B

Describetheliteralmeaningofthetext
Interpretthedistinguishingfeaturesofatext
3.B Interpretthemeaningofatext
4.A Determinethemeaningoffamiliarandunfamiliarwords
3.A

Describetheliteralmeaningofthetext
Describedata
2.A Makeculturalconnections
2.B Makeconnectionsinandacrossdisciplines
3.A Interpretthedistinguishingfeaturesofatext
4.A Determinethemeaningoffamiliarandunfamiliarwords
1.B

Describetheliteralmeaningofthetext
Makeculturalconnections
2.B Makeconnectionsinandacrossdisciplines
3.A Interpretthedistinguishingfeaturesofatext
3.B Interpretthemeaningofatext
4.A Determinethemeaningoffamiliarandunfamiliarwords
2.A

Describetheliteralmeaningofthetext
Makeconnectionsinandacrossdisciplines
3.A Interpretthedistinguishingfeaturesofatext
3.B Interpretthemeaningofatext
4.A Determinethemeaningoffamiliarandunfamiliarwords
2.B

Describetheliteralmeaningofthetext
Describedata
2.A Makeculturalconnections
2.B Makeconnectionsinandacrossdisciplines
3.A Interpretthedistinguishingfeaturesofatext
3.B Interpretthemeaningofatext
4.A Determinethemeaningoffamiliarandunfamiliarwords
1.B

Describetheliteralmeaningofthetext
Makeconnectionsinandacrossdisciplines
3.A Interpretthedistinguishingfeaturesofatext
3.B Interpretthemeaningofatext
2.B

3.A
3.B

Describetheliteralmeaningofthetext
Interpretthedistinguishingfeaturesofatext
Interpretthemeaningofatext
continued on next page

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 155
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Stimulus Type

Number of
Questions

Presentation

8

Skills Assessed by Set
Describetheliteralmeaningofthetext
Makeculturalconnections
2.B Makeconnectionsinandacrossdisciplines
3.A Interpretthedistinguishingfeaturesofatext
3.B Interpretthemeaningofatext
4.A Determinethemeaningoffamiliarandunfamiliarwords
1.A
2.A

Section II: Free-Response

Students are assessed on their ability to:

The second section of the AP French Language and
CultureExamincludesfourfree-responsequestions
(FRQs), each weighted equally. Each question is scored on
a five-pointholisticscale.(Seerubricsonpages167–73.)

§ Demonstrate comprehension of the sources’
viewpoints

FRQ 1: Email Reply requires students to compose
an email reply in the formal register in response to
an incoming email in French. In their reply, students
are instructed to include a greeting, and a closing,
and to respond to all the questions and requests in
the message. Additionally, students are instructed to
ask for more details about something mentioned in
the message.
Students are assessed on their ability to:
§ Maintain the exchange

§ Provide the required information with details and
elaboration

§ Communicate in a clear and understandable manner
in the formal register, using appropriate and varied
grammar, syntax, and sentence structure

§ Use varied and appropriate vocabulary, including
idiomatic language

FRQ 2: Argumentative Essay requires students to write
an essay to submit to a French writing contest. The essay
topic is based on three accompanying sources, which
presentdifferentviewpointsonthetopicandincludeboth
print and audio material. Students are given six minutes
to read the essay topic and the printed material, and two
opportunities to listen to the audio material. Students are
encouraged to take notes while they listen. The essay
asks students to clearly present and thoroughly defend
their own position on the topic, integrate viewpoints
and information from all three sources to support their
argument (identifying the sources appropriately), and
organizetheiressayintoclearparagraphs.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

§ Address the topic within the context of the task

§ Integrate content from the sources to support
the argument

§ Present and defend their position on the topic in an
organizedessay

§ Communicate in a clear and understandable manner,
using appropriate and varied grammar, syntax,
and sentencestructuretodevelopparagraphlength discourse

§ Use varied and appropriate vocabulary, including
idiomatic language

FRQ 3: Conversation requires students to participate in
a simulated conversation with a recorded interlocutor.
They are provided with an outline of the conversation
that explains how they are to respond to each of their
fiveturnsintheconversation.Theyhave20secondsto
respondineach turn.
Students are assessed on their ability to:
§ Maintain the exchange

§ Provide the required information with elaboration
and details

§ Communicate in a clear and understandable manner,
using appropriate and varied grammar, syntax, and
sentence structure, and a consistent register that is
appropriate for the conversation

§ Use appropriate pronunciation, intonation, and pacing
to enhance comprehension

§ Use varied and appropriate vocabulary, including
idiomatic language

Exam Information V.1 | 156
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

FRQ 4: Cultural Comparison requires students to
compareanaspectofaFrench-speakingcommunity
with which they are familiar to that in their own or another
community, demonstrating an understanding of cultural
featuresofthisFrench-speakingcommunity.Students
have four minutes to read the prompt and prepare and
two minutes to deliver their presentation.
Students are assessed on their ability to:

§ Address the topic within the context of the task

§ Compare the target culture with the student’s own
or another community, using supporting details
and relevant examples and demonstrating an
understanding of the target culture

§ Giveanorganizedandunderstandablepresentation
§ Communicate in a clear and coherent manner,
using appropriate and varied grammar, syntax,
and sentence structure and a consistent register
appropriate for the presentation

§ Use varied and appropriate vocabulary, including
idiomatic language

§ Use appropriate pronunciation, intonation, and pacing
to enhance comprehension

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 157
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Task Verbs Used
in Free-Response
Questions

The following task verbsarecommonlyusedinthefree-responsequestions:
Ask: Request information or details.
Compare: Provide a description or explanation of similarities and/or
differences.
Defend: Explain or justify.
Demonstrate: Show ability to respond appropriately.
Hear/Listen: Listen to directions and an audio source.
Identify/Indicate: Indicateorprovideinformationaboutaspecifiedtopic,
without elaboration or explanation.
Make a presentation: Orallyrespondtoaprompt.
Organize: Determine and arrange a logical sequence for a response.
Participate in a conversation: Respond to spoken prompts (such as
providingagreeting;offeringdetails,explanations,opinion,orperspectives;
accepting or declining an invitation or suggestion; proposing solutions; and/or
concluding a conversation).
Prepare: Plan your response.
Present: Provide information or ideas.
Read: Look at or view printed directions and information.
Record: Capture spoken responses digitally.
Respond: Reply to a question or prompt.
Speak: Expressideasverballyinresponsetoaspecificquestionorprompt.
Use: Select and use appropriate register (formal or informal).
Write: Produce a response in writing.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 158
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Sample Exam
Questions
The sample exam questions that follow illustrate the relationship between the course
framework and the AP French Language and Culture Exam and serve as examples
of the types of questions that appear on the exam. At the end of the sample exam
questions we provide a table showing which skills and learning objectives are assessed
ineachquestion.Thetablealsoprovidesanswerstothemultiple-choicequestions.
Please note, the sample exam includes questions with available audio. If using the
downloadable PDF version of this publication, you can access the audio by clicking on
the audio icon . If using the print version, please visit your course’s exam page on AP
Central for the audio. Scripts for audio are presented in this publication for reference.
They are not provided to students during the exam.

Section I: Multiple-Choice Questions
Thefollowingareexamplesofthekindsofmultiple-choicequestionsfoundon
the exam.
Dans cette sélection il s’agit de la situation financière des auteurs québécois.
L’article original a été publié le 23 avril 2016 au Canada par le journaliste
Louis-Philippe Ouimet.
Quand vendre des livres ne suffit pas pour vivre de sa plume
C’estle23avrildechaqueannéequ’estcélébréelaJournéemondialedulivreetdu
droitd’auteur.Derrièrecettegrandefêtedulivresecachetoutefoisunedureréalité.
En2008,65 %desécrivainsquébécoisonttirémoinsde5 000 $deleurtravailde
créationlittéraire,contre22 %quiontréussiàgagnerde5 000 $à19 999 $,révèle
5 l’Enquêteauprèsdesécrivains(2010)del’InstitutdelastatistiqueduQuébec(ISQ)et
del’ObservatoiredelacultureetdescommunicationsduQuébec(OCCQ).Avecdetels
revenus,difficiledevivresimplementdesonœuvre.
C’estlecasdeLouisePortal.Elleaécrit16livres,dontunbest-sellerquis’estvenduà
25 000exemplaires.Malgrécela,ellenepeutpascompterseulementsursestalents
10 d’écrivaine.« J’aieuunassezbonchèquededroitsd’auteur,maisjesuistrèsloin
de pouvoir gagner ma vie avec ma plume. Et c’est pour ça qu’on doit parler de cette
journéedulivreetdudroitd’auteur »,plaide-t-elle.
Commelesauteursreçoiventenredevancesenmoyenne10 %dumontantdechaque
15 livre vendu, il faut connaître tout un succès en librairie pour s’enrichir avec sonécriture.
GrâceàsessériesàsuccèsdontLes Chevaliers d’Émeraude et A.N.G.E.,l’écrivaine
AnneRobillardfaitpartiedelapoignéed’écrivainsquébécoisquiviventdeleurplume.
Sonsecret ?« Ilfautécrirebeaucoup,ça,jepeuxvousledire.Monsurnomdansle
milieu,c’estlamachine.J’aimeécrire.C’estmontravailde6hlematinà9hlesoir »,
20 confie-t-elle.Avec57ouvragesàsonactif,elleaffirmeavoirvenduprèsde5 millions
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 159
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

delivresen13ans.Elleajoutequesielleréussitàseconsacreràpleintempsà
l’écriture,c’estparcequ’ellereçoit40 %deredevancesetnonpas10 %.
Maispublieràcompted’auteur,c’estaussicumuleruneautrechargedetravail,et
n’obteniraucunesubventiondugouvernement,« parcequ’onn’estpaséditeur ».
Toujoursselonl’ISQetl’OCCQ,ils’estvenduauQuébecen2015pourplusde608
25 millionsdedollarsdelivres.Silesventesetleslecteurssontaurendez-vous,comment
expliquerqu’autantd’auteursontdeladifficultéàtirerleurépingledujeu ?
« Ilyaplusd’auteursqu’ilyenavait,alorsvouspartagezlatarteavecplusdegens »,
expliqueledirecteur-généraldel’Associationnationaledeséditeursdelivres(ANEL),
Richard Prieur.
30 Plusieursartistesespèrentunjourvoirleursrevenusdecréationaugmenter.« Un
plombier,justepoursedéplacer,demande80 $.Sivousfaitesdesstatistiques,vous
allezvoirquelesauteurssedéplacentpourpasmalmoinsqueçadanslessalonsdu
livreetdanslesconférences »,noteLouisePortal.
Quandvendredeslivresnesuffitpaspourvivredesaplume©2016Radio-Canada.Allrightsreserved

Dans cette sélection il s’agit des dépenses liées aux activités de création littéraire.
Le tableau original a été publié en septembre 2011 au Canada par l’Institut de la
statistique du Québec (ISQ).
Dépenses
de moins
de 500 $

Dépenses
de 500 $ à
999 $

Dépenses
de 1 000 $
ou plus

Total

%
Achat ou
location de
matérielou
d’équipement

Frais
d’adhésion
àdes
asociations ou
regroupements
d’auteurs/
artistes
Déplacements

Dépensesliées
àlarecherche
Frais de
représentation
Location de
local

Dépensesliées
àl’intégration
de nouvelles
technologies

Frais
d’inscriptionà
des colloques ou
àdescongrès
Frais de
formation ou de
stage
Autres

Écrivains ayant
effectué de
telles dépenses
Nombre

%

30,8

22,9

46,3

100,0

657

65,8

94,5

4,3

1,2

100,0

643

65,4

38,5

23,4

38,1

100,0

520

52,0

41,4

23,6

34,9

100,0

399

39,6

43,8

26,7

29,5

100,0

316

30,9

9,8

9,7

80,5

100,0

192

18,9

48,3

27,1

24,6

100,0

169

16,5

84,6

11,4

4,0

100,0

102

10,0

71,8

15,6

12,5

100,0

90

8,7

49,5

21,8

28,7

100,0

184

17,8

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 160
Return to Table of Contents

© 2024 College Board

1.

Quelle phrase résume le mieux le message de l’article ?
(A) Les livres se vendent de moins en moins bien en librairie.
(B) La Journée mondiale du livre et du droit d’auteur n’a pas eu beaucoup de succès.
(C) Les écrivains ont de la difficulté à gagner leur vie par leurs œuvres.
(D) L’Internet a fait baisser le prix des livres et le revenu des auteurs.

2.

Quel est le ton de l’article en ce qui concerne les écrivains québécois ?
(A) Tout à fait neutre
(B) Empathique
(C) Très optimiste
(D) Un peu moqueur

3.

D’après l’article, pourquoi appelle-t-on Anne Robillard « la machine » ?
(A) Elle a du mal à exprimer les émotions.
(B) Ses œuvres manquent d’originalité.
(C) Sa recherche est méticuleuse.
(D) Elle passe beaucoup de temps à écrire.

4.

D’après l’article, comment est-ce qu’un auteur pourrait mieux réussir
financièrement ?
(A) En faisant des tournées à l’étranger
(B) En écrivant des séries en anglais
(C) En adaptant ses œuvres pour le cinéma
(D) En obtenant une plus grande part du profit de ses livres

5.

Dans le contexte de l’article, que signifie l’expression {reference: tirer leur épingle
du jeu} ?
(A) Vendre le maximum d’exemplaires
(B) Bien manœuvrer dans le monde des affaires
(C) Se faire publier gratuitement
(D) Travailler à plein temps

6.

D’après l’article, qu’est-ce qui explique en partie la difficulté à laquelle les auteurs
québécois font face ?
(A) La somme accordée pour les droits d’auteur ne cesse de diminuer.
(B) La lecture est moins appréciée au Québec que dans le reste du Canada.
(C) Le gouvernement a supprimé son programme d’aide financière destiné aux
auteurs.
(D) Le nombre d’écrivains québécois voulant tirer parti du marché accroît.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 161
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

7.

Quelle situation Louise Portal veut-elle souligner en faisant référence aux
plombiers dans le dernier paragraphe de l’article ?
(A) Les déplacements des plombiers sont mieux récompensés que ceux des
écrivains.
(B) Le salaire de son mari qui est plombier lui permet d’écrire.
(C) Les plombiers confrontent eux aussi des situations difficiles.
(D) Les plombiers sont payés en fonction des heures travaillées.

8.

Quelles informations est-ce que le tableau présente ?
(A) Le prix des ouvrages sur certains sujets
(B) Les coûts associés à la création d’œuvres littéraires
(C) La moyenne des redevances perçues chaque année
(D) Les dépenses liées aux concours littéraires

9.

D’après le tableau, quelle dépense a tendance à nécessiter le plus grand
investissement financier ?
(A) La location d’un local
(B) Les déplacements
(C) L’achat d’équipement
(D) L’inscription à des colloques

10. D’après le tableau, quelle activité est la plus importante pour la majorité des
écrivains ?
(A) Engager un éditeur professionnel
(B) Devenir membre d’un groupe d’auteurs
(C) Avoir une présence en ligne
(D) Faire des recherches
11. Vous faites un exposé basé sur l’article et le tableau. Quelle source serait la plus
pertinente ?
(A) Les droits d’auteur et la création littéraire
(B) Un guide des meilleures séries de livres publiées au Québec
(C) Faire carrière littéraire : Un guide pour s’enrichir
(D) Un recueil des grands auteurs canadiens
Vous aurez d’abord 1 minute pour lire l’introduction et parcourir les questions.

Dans cette sélection il s’agit des écoles bilingues en Louisiane. L’interview
originale intitulée « De plus en plus de français en Louisiane » a été publiée
le 8 février 2016 au Canada par Radio Canada. Denis Duschesne de
Radio Canada parle avec Charles Larroque, directeur du Conseil pour le
développement du français en Louisiane (CODOFIL), à propos des écoles
bilingues en Louisiane. La sélection dure à peu près trois minutes.
DeplusenplusdeFrançaisenLouisiane©2016Radio-Canada.Allrightsreserved.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 162
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Script
Due to a permissions clearance issue, the transcript of this interview is not currently
available.

12. Quel est l’objectif principal de l’interview ?
(A) Vanter les écoles bilingues de Louisiane pour qu’elles puissent servir de
modèles à d’autres communautés
(B) Faire un bilan des opportunités en Louisiane de faire des études dans la
langue française
(C) Recruter des enseignants pour travailler dans les écoles bilingues en
Louisiane
(D) Discuter de comment obtenir un meilleur financement de la commission
scolaire pour les écoles bilingues en Louisiane
13. Selon l’interview, que peut-on dire des professeurs qui enseignent dans les écoles
bilingues en Louisiane ?
(A) Ils reçoivent une formation rigoureuse une fois arrivés en Louisiane.
(B) Ils sont sélectionnés parmi les meilleurs anciens élèves des écoles
bilingues.
(C) Ils doivent avoir un minimum de cinq ans d’expérience dans
l ’enseignement.
(D) Ils doivent enseigner des matières comme les mathématiques et les
sciences.
14. Que dit Charles Larroque à propos du programme éducatif des écoles bilingues
louisianaises ?
(A) Le programme est excellent en raison de la qualité des enseignants.
(B) Le programme suit les recommandations de la commission scolaire française.
(C) Le programme exige un niveau de français avancé atteint par seulement une
minorité des élèves.
(D) Le programme offre aux élèves la possibilité d’obtenir un baccalauréat
français.
15. Selon Charles Larroque, qu’est-ce qui manque actuellement à l’éducation en Louisiane ?
(A) Un programme de doctorat en études francophones
(B) Un programme d’immersion à l’école maternelle
(C) Une formation bilingue orientée vers la professionnalisation
(D) Une formation à l’enseignement bilingue pour les professeurs

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 163
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

16. Si le journaliste voulait continuer l’interview, quelle question serait la plus logique ?
(A) « Comment avez-vous organisé l’échange avec les écoles professionnelles en
France ? »
(B) « Est-ce qu’il y a suffisamment de personnes qui s’intéressent à des emplois
bilingues ? »
(C) « Quelles idées avez-vous eues de votre visite des écoles sur l’Île-du-PrinceÉdouard ? »
(D) « À quoi est-ce que vous attribuez le succès des programmes bilingues audelà du secondaire ? »

Section II: Free-Response Questions
Below are two sample free-response questions—numbers 1 and 4. (For more
information on all four free-response questions, see page 158.)
Free-Response Question 1: Email Reply
Prompt/Directions:
Youwillwriteareplytoanemail
message.Youhave15minutesto
read the message and write your
reply.

Yourreplyshouldincludeagreeting
and a closing and should respond
to all the questions and requests
in the message. In your reply, you
should also ask for more details
about something mentioned in the
message. Also, you should use a
formal form of address.

Vousallezrépondreàuncourrier
électronique.Vousaurez15minutes
pour lire le message et composer
votreréponse.

Votreréponsedoitcommencerpar
une salutation et se terminer par une
formuledepolitesse.Vousdevez
répondreàtouteslesquestionsetà
toutes les demandes du message.
Dansvotreréponse,vousdevez
demanderdesdétailssurunsujet
évoquédanslecourrier.Vousdevez
utiliser un registre de langue soutenu.

1. C’est un message électronique de Danielle Penner, directrice musicale du
chœur « A Capella voyageur ». Vous recevez ce message parce que vous avez
participé aux auditions de recrutement pour devenir membre de la chorale.
De: Danielle Penner
Objet:Bienvenueauchœur« ACapellavoyageur » !
C’estavecplaisirquejevousadressecete-maildebienvenueaunomduchœur
« ACapellavoyageur ».Dèsnotreprochainerépétition,noschoristessejoindront
àmoipourvousaccueillir.
Commevouslesavez,l’objectifprincipaldenotregroupeestdeproposerdes
concertsdevoixquifontdécouvriràtouslespublicsunrépertoireéclectiqueet
dynamique.« ACapellavoyageur »parcourtlesroutesdeFranceetprésenteun
concertparmois.Cetteannées’ajouteraunegrandenouveautépuisquenous
feronségalementunetournéeenBelgique.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 164
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

NotresiteWebprésentedesphotosindividuellesdenoschoristes,
accompagnéesdecourtesdescriptions.Afindenousaideràrédigerlalégende
pourvotrephoto,veuillezrépondreauxquestionssuivantes :

• Quelestvotreintérêtpersonnelàdevenirmembreduchoeur?
• Commenoussommestoujoursàlarecherchedenouveauxchoristes,avez-vous
dessuggestionspourencouragerdesjeunesgensdevotreâgeàparticiper?
Jevousfélicitedelaqualitédevotreauditionetunefoisdeplus,bienvenue
parminous !
Salutations cordiales,
Danielle Penner
Directrice musicale

Free-Response Question 4: Cultural Comparison
Prompt/Directions:
Youwillmakeanoralpresentation
onaspecifictopictoyourclass.
Youwillhave4minutestoreadthe
presentation topic and prepare your
presentation. Then you will have 2
minutes to record your presentation.

In your presentation, compare a
French-speakingcommunitywith
which you are familiar to your own
oranothercommunity.Youshould
demonstrate your understanding
ofculturalfeaturesofthisFrenchspeakingcommunity.Youshouldalso
organizeyourpresentationclearly.

Vousallezfaireunexposépourvotre
classesurunsujetprécis.Vous
aurez4minutespourlirelesujetde
cetexposéetpréparervotreexposé.
Vousaurezalors2minutespour
vous enregistrer.
Dansvotreexposé,comparezune
régiondumondefrancophoneque
vousconnaissezàvotrepropre
communautéouàuneautre
communauté.Vousdevezdémontrer
votrecompréhensionderéalités
culturellesdacettecommunauté
francophone.Vousdevezaussi
organiserclairementvotreexposé.

4. Comment est-ce que l’aménagement de la ville (ses marchés, parcs et rues,
par exemple) affecte la vie des gens d’une communauté francophone que
vous connaissez ? Comparez la façon dont l’aménagement de la ville affecte
les gens de cette communauté francophone à la façon dont il affecte les gens
de votre communauté ou sinon d’une autre communauté. Dans votre exposé,
vous pouvez faire référence à ce que vous avez étudié, vécu, observé, etc.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 165
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Answer Key and Question
Alignment to Course Framework
Multiple-Choice
Question

Answer

Task Model

Skill

Learning
Objective

1

C

Article and Chart

3.A

3.A.2

2

B

Article and Chart

3.A

3.A.3

3

D

Article and Chart

1.A

1.A.2

4

D

Article and Chart

2.B

2.B.4

5

B

Article and Chart

4.A

4.A.2

6

D

Article and Chart

2.B

2.B.1

7

A

Article and Chart

2.A

2.A.1

8

B

Article and Chart

3.A

3.A.2

9

A

Article and Chart

1.B

1.B.1

10

B

Article and Chart

1.B

1.B.2

11

C

Article and Chart

2.B

2.B.3

12

B

Interview

3.A

3.A.2

13

D

Interview

1.A

1.A.2

14

A

Interview

3.A

3.A.3

15

C

Interview

3.A

3.A.3

16

B

Interview

2.B

2.B.3

Free-Response
Question

Question Type

Skill

1

Email Reply

1.A, 2.A, 2.B, 4.A,
4.B, 6.A, 6.B

4

Cultural Comparison

2.A, 2.B, 4.B, 7.B,
7.C, 7.D

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 166
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE SCORING RUBRICS FOR
FREE-RESPONSE QUESTIONS
Free-Response Question: Email Reply (Question 1 on AP Exam)
5: STRONG

§ Maintains the exchange with a response that is clearly appropriate within the
context of the task

§ Provides required information (responses to questions, request for details) with
frequent elaboration

§ Fully understandable, with ease and clarity of expression; occasional errors do not
impede comprehensibility

§ Varied and appropriate vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ Accuracy and variety in grammar, syntax, and usage, with few errors

§ Mostly consistent use of register appropriate for the situation; control of cultural
conventions appropriate for formal correspondence (e.g., greeting, closing),
despite occasional errors

§ Variety of simple and compound sentences, and some complex sentences

4: GOOD

§ Maintains the exchange with a response that is generally appropriate within the
context of the task

§ Provides most required information (responses to questions, request for details)
with some elaboration

§ Fully understandable, with some errors that do not impede comprehensibility

§ Varied and generally appropriate vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ General control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Generally consistent use of register appropriate for the situation, except for
occasional shifts; basic control of cultural conventions appropriate for formal
correspondence (e.g., greeting, closing)

§ Simple, compound, and a few complex sentences

3: FAIR

§ Maintains the exchange with a response that is somewhat appropriate but basic
within the context of the task

§ Provides most required information (responses to questions, request for details)

§ Generally understandable, with errors that may impede comprehensibility

§ Appropriate but basic vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ Some control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Use of register may be inappropriate for the situation with several shifts; partial
control of conventions for formal correspondence (e.g., greeting, closing), although
these may lack cultural appropriateness

§ Simple and a few compound sentences

2: WEAK

§ Partially maintains the exchange with a response that is minimally appropriate
within the context of the task

§ Provides some required information (responses to questions, request for
details)

§ Partially understandable, with errors that force interpretation and cause confusion
for the reader

§ Limited vocabulary and idiomatic language

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 167
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

§ Limited control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Use of register is generally inappropriate for the situation; includes some
conventions for formal correspondence (e.g., greeting, closing) with
inaccuracies

§ Simple sentences and phrases

1: POOR

§ Unsuccessfully attempts to maintain the exchange by providing a response that is
inappropriate within the context of the task

§ Provides little required information (responses to questions, request for details)

§ Barelyunderstandable,withfrequentorsignificanterrorsthatimpede
comprehensibility

§ Very few vocabulary resources

§ Little or no control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Minimalornoattentiontoregister;includessignificantlyinaccurateorno
conventions for formal correspondence (e.g., greeting, closing)

§ Very simple sentences or fragments

0: UNACCEPTABLE

§ Mere restatement of language from the stimulus

§ Completely irrelevant to the stimulus

§ “I don’t know,” “I don’t understand,” or equivalent in any language

§ Not in the language of the exam

- (hyphen): BLANK(noresponse)

Free-Response Question: Argumentative Essay (Question 2 on AP Exam)
5: STRONG

§ Effectivetreatmentoftopicwithinthecontextofthetask

§ Demonstrates a high degree of comprehension of the sources’ viewpoints, with
very few minor inaccuracies

§ Integrates content from all three sources in support of an argument

§ Presents and defends the student’s own position on the topic with a high degree of
clarity; develops an argument with coherence and detail

§ Organizedessay;effectiveuseoftransitionalelementsorcohesivedevices

§ Fully understandable, with ease and clarity of expression; occasional errors do not
impede comprehensibility

§ Varied and appropriate vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ Accuracy and variety in grammar, syntax, and usage, with few errors

§ Developsparagraph-lengthdiscoursewithavarietyofsimpleandcompound
sentences, and some complex sentences

4: GOOD

§ Generallyeffectivetreatmentoftopicwithinthecontextofthetask

§ Demonstrates comprehension of the sources’ viewpoints; may include a few
inaccuracies

§ Summarizes,withlimitedintegration,contentfromallthreesourcesinsupportof
an argument

§ Presents and defends the student’s own position on the topic with clarity; develops
an argument with coherence

§ Organizedessay;someeffectiveuseoftransitionalelementsorcohesivedevices
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 168
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

§ Fully understandable, with some errors that do not impede comprehensibility

§ Varied and generally appropriate vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ General control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Developsmostlyparagraph-lengthdiscoursewithsimple,compound,andafew
complex sentences

3: FAIR

§ Suitable treatment of topic within the context of the task

§ Demonstrates a moderate degree of comprehension of the sources’ viewpoints;
includes some inaccuracies

§ Summarizescontentfromatleasttwosourcesinsupportofanargument

§ Presents and defends the student’s own position on the topic; develops an
argument with some coherence

§ Someorganization;limiteduseoftransitionalelementsorcohesivedevices

§ Generally understandable, with errors that may impede comprehensibility

§ Appropriate but basic vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ Some control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Uses strings of mostly simple sentences, with a few compound sentences

2: WEAK

§ Unsuitable treatment of topic within the context of the task

§ Demonstrates a low degree of comprehension of the sources’ viewpoints;
information may be limited or inaccurate

§ Summarizescontentfromoneortwosources;maynotsupportanargument

§ Presents, or at least suggests, the student’s own position on the topic; develops an
argument somewhat incoherently

§ Limitedorganization;ineffectiveuseoftransitionalelementsorcohesivedevices

§ Partially understandable, with errors that force interpretation and cause confusion
for the reader

§ Limited vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ Limited control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Uses strings of simple sentences and phrases

1: POOR

§ Almost no treatment of topic within the context of the task

§ Demonstrates poor comprehension of the sources’ viewpoints; includes frequent
andsignificantinaccuracies

§ Mostly repeats statements from sources or may not refer to any sources

§ Minimally suggests the student’s own position on the topic; argument is
undeveloped or incoherent

§ Littleornoorganization;absenceoftransitionalelementsandcohesivedevices

§ Barelyunderstandable,withfrequentorsignificanterrorsthatimpede
comprehensibility

§ Very few vocabulary resources

§ Little or no control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Very simple sentences or fragments

0: UNACCEPTABLE

§ Mere restatement of language from the prompt

§ Clearly does not respond to the prompt; completely irrelevant to the topic
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 169
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

§ “I don’t know,” “I don’t understand,” or equivalent in any language

§ Not in the language of the exam
- (hyphen):BLANK(noresponse)
Clarification Note:

There is no single expected format or style for referring to and identifying sources
appropriately. For example, test takers may opt to directly cite content in quotation
marks; paraphrase content and indicate that it is “according to Source 1” or “according
totheaudiofile”;refertothecontentandindicatethesourceinparentheses
[“(Source 2)”]; refer to the content and indicate the source using the author’s name
[“(Smith)”]; etc.
Free-Response Question: Conversation (Question 3 on AP Exam)
5: STRONG

§ Maintains the exchange with a series of responses that is clearly appropriate within
the context of the task

§ Provides required information (e.g., responses to questions, statement and support
of opinion) with frequent elaboration

§ Fully understandable, with ease and clarity of expression; occasional errors do not
impede comprehensibility

§ Varied and appropriate vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ Accuracy and variety in grammar, syntax, and usage, with few errors

§ Mostly consistent use of register appropriate for the conversation

§ Pronunciation, intonation, and pacing make the response comprehensible; errors
do not impede comprehensibility

§ Clarificationorself-correction(ifpresent)improvescomprehensibility

Scoring note: A response that meets the majority (but not necessarily all) of these
criteriaforatleast4oftheexchangesmaybesufficienttoearnascoreof5.
4: GOOD

§ Maintains the exchange with a series of responses that is generally appropriate
within the context of the task

§ Provides most required information (e.g., responses to questions, statement and
support of opinion) with some elaboration

§ Fully understandable, with some errors that do not impede comprehensibility

§ Varied and generally appropriate vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ General control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Generally consistent use of register appropriate for the conversation, except for
occasional shifts

§ Pronunciation, intonation, and pacing make the response mostly comprehensible;
errors do not impede comprehensibility

§ Clarificationorself-correction(ifpresent)usuallyimprovescomprehensibility

3: FAIR

§ Maintains the exchange with a series of responses that is somewhat appropriate
within the context of the task

§ Provides most required information (e.g., responses to questions, statement and
support of opinion)

§ Generally understandable, with errors that may impede comprehensibility

§ Appropriate but basic vocabulary and idiomatic language
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 170
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

§ Some control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Use of register may be inappropriate for the conversation with several shifts

§ Pronunciation, intonation, and pacing make the response generally
comprehensible; errors occasionally impede comprehensibility

§ Clarificationorself-correction(ifpresent)sometimesimprovescomprehensibility

2: WEAK

§ Partially maintains the exchange with a series of responses that is minimally
appropriate within the context of the task

§ Provides some required information (e.g., responses to questions, statement and
support of opinion)

§ Partially understandable, with errors that force interpretation and cause confusion
for the listener

§ Limited vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ Limited control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Use of register is generally inappropriate for the conversation

§ Pronunciation,intonation,andpacingmaketheresponsedifficulttocomprehend
at times; errors impede comprehensibility

§ Clarificationorself-correction(ifpresent)usuallydoesnotimprove
comprehensibility

1: POOR

§ Unsuccessfully attempts to maintain the exchange by providing a series of
responses that is inappropriate within the context of the task

§ Provides little required information (e.g., responses to questions, statement and
support of opinion)

§ Barelyunderstandable,withfrequentorsignificanterrorsthatimpede
comprehensibility

§ Very few vocabulary resources

§ Little or no control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Minimal or no attention to register

§ Pronunciation,intonation,andpacingmaketheresponsedifficulttocomprehend;
errors impede comprehensibility

§ Clarificationorself-correction(ifpresent)doesnotimprovecomprehensibility

0: UNACCEPTABLE performance in Interpersonal Speaking
§ Mere restatement of language from the prompts

§ Clearly does not respond to the prompts; completely irrelevant to the topic

§ “I don’t know,” “I don’t understand,” or equivalent in English

§ Clearly responds to the prompts in English

NR (No Response): BLANK(noresponse,althoughrecordingequipmentisfunctioning)
Free-Response Question: Cultural Comparison (Question 4 on AP Exam)
5: STRONG

§ Effectivetreatmentoftopicwithinthecontextofthetask

§ Clearly compares the target culture with the student’s own or another community,
including supporting details and relevant examples

§ Demonstrates understanding of the target culture, despite a few minor
inaccuracies

§ Organizedpresentation;effectiveuseoftransitionalelementsorcohesivedevices
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 171
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

§ Fully understandable, with ease and clarity of expression; occasional errors do not
impede comprehensibility

§ Varied and appropriate vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ Accuracy and variety in grammar, syntax, and usage, with few errors

§ Mostly consistent use of register appropriate for the presentation

§ Pronunciation, intonation, and pacing make the response comprehensible; errors
do not impede comprehensibility

§ Clarificationorself-correction(ifpresent)improvescomprehensibility

Scoring note: A response that does not explicitly compare cannot earn a score of 5.
4: GOOD

§ Generallyeffectivetreatmentoftopicwithinthecontextofthetask

§ Compares the target culture with the student’s own or another community,
including some supporting details and mostly relevant examples

§ Demonstrates some understanding of the target culture, despite minor inaccuracies

§ Organizedpresentation;someeffectiveuseoftransitionalelementsorcohesive
devices

§ Fully understandable, with some errors that do not impede comprehensibility

§ Varied and generally appropriate vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ General control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Generally consistent use of register appropriate for the presentation, except for
occasional shifts

§ Pronunciation, intonation, and pacing make the response mostly comprehensible;
errors do not impede comprehensibility

§ Clarificationorself-correction(ifpresent)usuallyimprovescomprehensibility

Scoring note: A response that does not explicitly compare may earn a score of 4 if it
providesagenerallyeffectivetreatmentofthetopic,includingsomeunderstandingof
the target culture and the student’s own or another community.
3: FAIR

§ Suitable treatment of topic within the context of the task

§ Compares the target culture with the student’s own or another community,
including a few supporting details and examples

§ Demonstrates a basic understanding of the target culture, despite inaccuracies

§ Someorganization;limiteduseoftransitionalelementsorcohesivedevices

§ Generally understandable, with errors that may impede comprehensibility

§ Appropriate but basic vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ Some control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Use of register may be inappropriate for the presentation with several shifts

§ Pronunciation, intonation, and pacing make the response generally
comprehensible; errors occasionally impede comprehensibility

§ Clarificationorself-correction(ifpresent)sometimesimprovescomprehensibility

Scoring note: A response that does not explicitly compare may earn a score of 3 if it
provides a suitable treatment of the topic, including a basic understanding of the target
culture and the student’s own or another community.
2: WEAK

§ Unsuitable treatment of topic within the context of the task

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 172
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

§ Presents information about the target culture and the student’s own or another
community but may not compare them; consists mostly of statements with no
development

§ Demonstrates a limited understanding of the target culture; may include several
inaccuracies

§ Limitedorganization;ineffectiveuseoftransitionalelementsorcohesivedevices

§ Partially understandable, with errors that force interpretation and cause confusion
for the listener

§ Limited vocabulary and idiomatic language

§ Limited control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Use of register is generally inappropriate for the presentation

§ Pronunciation,intonation,andpacingmaketheresponsedifficulttocomprehend
at times; errors impede comprehensibility

§ Clarificationorself-correction(ifpresent)usuallydoesnotimprove
comprehensibility

1: POOR

§ Almost no treatment of topic within the context of the task

§ Presents information only about the target culture or only about the student’s own
or another community and may not include examples

§ Demonstrates minimal understanding of the target culture; generally inaccurate

§ Littleornoorganization;absenceoftransitionalelementsandcohesivedevices

§ Barelyunderstandable,withfrequentorsignificanterrorsthatimpede
comprehensibility

§ Very few vocabulary resources

§ Little or no control of grammar, syntax, and usage

§ Minimal or no attention to register

§ Pronunciation,intonation,andpacingmaketheresponsedifficulttocomprehend;
errors impede comprehensibility

§ Clarificationorself-correction(ifpresent)doesnotimprovecomprehensibility

0: UNACCEPTABLE

§ Mere restatement of language from the prompt

§ Clearly does not respond to the prompt; completely irrelevant to the topic

§ “I don’t know,” “I don’t understand,” or equivalent in English

§ Clearly responds to the prompt in English

NR (No Response): BLANK(noresponse,althoughrecordingequipmentisfunctioning)
Clarification Notes:

§ The term “community” can refer to something as large as a continent or as small as
a family unit.

§ The phrase “target culture” can refer to any community large or small associated
with the target language.
The scoring information for the questions within this course and exam description,
along with further exam resources, can be found on the AP French Language
and Culture Exam Page on AP Central.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Exam Information V.1 | 173
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.

AP FRENCH LANGUAGE AND CULTURE

Scoring Guidelines
Question 1: Email Reply
Prompt/Directions:
Youwillwriteareplytoanemailmessage.Youhave15minutestoread
the message and write your reply.
Yourreplyshouldincludeagreetingandaclosingandshouldrespond
to all the questions and requests in the message. In your reply, you
should also ask for more details about something mentioned in the
message. Also, you should use a formal form of address.

Vousallezrépondreàuncourrierélectronique.Vousaurez15minutes
pourlirelemessageetcomposervotreréponse.

Votreréponsedoitcommencerparunesalutationetseterminerpar
uneformuledepolitesse.Vousdevezrépondreàtouteslesquestions
etàtouteslesdemandesdumessage.Dansvotreréponse,vousdevez
demanderdesdétailssurunsujetévoquédanslecourrier.Vousdevez
utiliser un registre de langue soutenu.

1. C’est un message électronique de Danielle Penner, directrice musicale du chœur « A Capella voyageur ». Vous recevez ce message parce que vous avez participé
aux auditions de recrutement pour devenir membre de la chorale.
De: Danielle Penner
Objet:Bienvenueauchœur« ACapellavoyageur » !
C’estavecplaisirquejevousadressecete-maildebienvenueaunomduchœur« ACapellavoyageur ».Dèsnotreprochainerépétition,noschoristessejoindrontàmoi
pour vous accueillir.
Commevouslesavez,l’objectifprincipaldenotregroupeestdeproposerdesconcertsdevoixquifontdécouvriràtouslespublicsunrépertoireéclectiqueet
dynamique.« ACapellavoyageur »parcourtlesroutesdeFranceetprésenteunconcertparmois.Cetteannées’ajouteraunegrandenouveautépuisquenousferons
égalementunetournéeenBelgique.
NotresiteWebprésentedesphotosindividuellesdenoschoristes,accompagnéesdecourtesdescriptions.Afindenousaideràrédigerlalégendepourvotrephoto,
veuillezrépondreauxquestionssuivantes :
• Quelestvotreintérêtpersonnelàdevenirmembreduchoeur?
• Commenouss

ommestoujoursàlarecherchedenouveauxchoristes,avez-vousdessuggestionspourencouragerdesjeunesgensdevotreâgeàparticiper?
Jevousfélicitedelaqualitédevotreauditionetunefoisdeplus,bienvenueparminous !
Salutations cordiales,
Danielle Penner
Directrice musicale

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Scoring Guidelines V.1 | 175
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

General Scoring Notes
Whenapplyingthescoringguidelines,theresponsedoesnotneedtomeeteverysinglecriterioninacolumn.Youshould
awardthescoreaccordingtothepreponderanceof evidence.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Scoring Guidelines V.1 | 176
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Scoring Guidelines for Question 1: Email Reply
1
Poor

2
Weak

Skills: 1.A
3
Fair

2.A

2.B

4.A

4.B

6.A



5 points

6.B

4
Good

5
Strong

Unsuccessfully attempts to
maintain the exchange by
providing a response that
is inappropriate within the
context of the task
Provides little required
information (responses to
questions, request for details)

•

Partially maintains the
exchange with a response
that is minimally appropriate
within the context of the task

•

Maintains the exchange with
a response that is somewhat
appropriate but basic within the
context of the task

•

Maintains the exchange with
a response that is generally
appropriate within the context
of the task

•

Maintains the exchange with
a response that is clearly
appropriate within the context
of the task

•

Provides some required
information (responses to
questions, request for details)

•

Provides most required
information (responses to
questions, request for details)

•

•

•

Barely understandable, with
frequent or significant errors
that impede comprehensibility

•

•

Generally understandable,
with errors that may impede
comprehensibility

•

•

Very few vocabulary resources

•

Partially understandable
with errors that force
interpretation and cause
confusion for the reader
Limited vocabulary and
idiomatic language

Provides most required
information (responses to
questions, request for details)
with some elaboration
Fully understandable, with
some errors that do not
impede comprehensibility

•

Appropriate but basic vocabulary
and idiomatic language

•

•

•

Little or no control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

•

Limited control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

•

Some control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

•

Varied and generally
appropriate vocabulary and
idiomatic language
General control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

•

Minimal or no attention to
register; includes significantly
inaccurate or no conventions
for formal correspondence
(e.g., greeting, closing)

•

•

•

Generally consistent use of
register appropriate for the
situation, except for occasional
shifts; basic control of cultural
conventions appropriate for
formal correspondence (e.g.,
greeting, closing)
Simple, compound, and a few
complex sentences

•

Very simple sentences or
fragments

Use of register may be
inappropriate for the situation
with several shifts; partial
control of conventions for formal
correspondence (e.g., greeting,
closing), although these may lack
cultural appropriateness
Simple and a few compound
sentences

•

•

Use of register is generally
inappropriate for the
situation; includes some
conventions for formal
correspondence (e.g.,
greeting, closing) with
inaccuracies
Simple sentences and
phrases

Provides required information
(responses to questions,
request for details) with
frequent elaboration
Fully understandable, with
ease and clarity of expression;
occasional errors do not impede
comprehensibility
Varied and appropriate
vocabulary and idiomatic
language
Accuracy and variety in
grammar, syntax, and usage,
with few errors
Mostly consistent use of
register appropriate for the
situation; control of cultural
conventions appropriate for
formal correspondence (e.g.,
greeting, closing), despite
occasional errors
Variety of simple and
compound sentences, and
some complex sentences

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

0: UNACCEPTABLE
•
•
•
•

Mere restatement of language from the stimulus
Completely irrelevant to the stimulus

“I don’t know,” “I don’t understand,” or equivalent in any language
Not in the language of the exam

BLANK: (no response)

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Scoring Guidelines V.1 | 177
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Question 4: Cultural Comparison
Prompt/Directions:
Youwillmakeanoralpresentationonaspecifictopictoyourclass.You
will have 4 minutes to read the presentation topic and prepare your
presentation. Then you will have 2 minutes to record your presentation.

Inyourpresentation,compareaFrench-speakingcommunitywith
whichyouarefamiliartoyourownoranothercommunity.Youshould
demonstrateyourunderstandingofculturalfeaturesofthisFrenchspeakingcommunity.Youshouldalsoorganizeyourpresentationclearly.

Vousallezfaireunexposépourvotreclassesurunsujetprécis.Vous
aurez4minutespourlirelesujetdecetexposéetpréparervotre
exposé.Vousaurezalors2minutespourvousenregistrer.

Dansvotreexposé,comparezunerégiondumondefrancophone
quevousconnaissezàvotreproprecommunautéouàuneautre
communauté.Vousdevezdémontrervotrecompréhensionderéalités
culturellesdacettecommunautéfrancophone.Vousdevezaussi
organiserclairementvotreexposé.

4. Comment est-ce que l’aménagement de la ville (ses marchés, parcs et rues, par exemple) affecte la vie des gens d’une communauté francophone que vous
connaissez ? Comparez la façon dont l’aménagement de la ville affecte les gens de cette communauté francophone à la façon dont il affecte les gens de votre
communauté ou sinon d’une autre communauté. Dans votre exposé, vous pouvez faire référence à ce que vous avez étudié, vécu, observé, etc.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Scoring Guidelines V.1 | 178
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

Scoring Guidelines for Question 4: Cultural Comparison
1
Poor

2
Weak

Skills: 1.A 2.A

3
Fair

Almost no treatment of topic
within the context of the task

•

Unsuitable treatment of topic
within the context of the task

•

Suitable treatment of topic
within the context of the task

•

•

Presents information only
about the target culture or
only about the student’s own
or another community and
may not include examples

•

•

Compares the target culture
with the student’s own or
another community including
a few supporting details and
examples

•

•

Demonstrates minimal
understanding of the target
culture; generally inaccurate

•

•

Demonstrates a basic
understanding of the target
culture, despite inaccuracies

•

•

Littleornoorganization;
absence of transitional
elements and cohesive
devices
Barely understandable,
with frequent or significant
errors that impede
comprehensibility
Very few vocabulary
resources

•

Presents information about the
target culture and the student’s
own or another community but
may not compare them; consists
mostly of statements with no
development
Demonstrates a limited
understanding of the target
culture; may include several
inaccuracies
Limitedorganization;ineffective
use of transitional elements or
cohesive devices

•

Someorganization;limited
use of transitional elements or
cohesive devices

•

Partially understandable, with
errors that force interpretation
and cause confusion for the
listener
Limited vocabulary and
idiomatic language

•

Generally understandable,
with errors that may impede
comprehensibility

•

•

Little or no control of
grammar, syntax, and usage

•

Limited control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

•

•

Minimal or no attention
to register

•

Use of register is generally
inappropriate for the
presentation

•

•

Pronunciation, intonation,
and pacing make the
response difficult to
comprehend; errors impede
comprehensibility
Clarificationorselfcorrection (if present)
does not improve
comprehensibility

•

Pronunciation, intonation, and
pacing make the response
difficult to comprehend at times;
errors impede comprehensibility

•

•

Clarificationorself-correction
(if present) usually does not
improve comprehensibility

•

•

•

•

4.B

7.B



7.C

5 points

7.D

4
Good

•

•

2.B

5
Strong

Generally effective treatment
of topic within the context of
the task
Compares the target culture
with the student’s own or
another community, including
some supporting details and
mostly relevant examples

•

Effective treatment of topic
within the context of the task

•

Clearly compares the target
culture with the student’s
own or another community,
including supporting details
and relevant examples

Demonstrates some
understanding of the target
culture, despite minor
inaccuracies
Organizedpresentation;some
effective use of transitional
elements or cohesive devices

•

Demonstrates understanding
of the target culture, despite a
few minor inaccuracies

•

Organizedpresentation;
effective use of transitional
elements or cohesive devices

•

Fully understandable, with
some errors that do not
impede comprehensibility

•

Appropriate but basic
vocabulary and idiomatic
language
Some control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

•

Varied and generally
appropriate vocabulary and
idiomatic language
General control of grammar,
syntax, and usage

•

Use of register may be
inappropriate for the
presentation with several shifts

•

Generally consistent use
of register appropriate for
the presentation, except for
occasional shifts
• Pronunciation, intonation, and
pacing make the response
mostly comprehensible;
errors do not impede
comprehensibility
• Clarificationorself-correction
(if present) usually improves
comprehensibility
Scoring note: A response that does
not explicitly compare may earn a
score of 4 if it provides a generally
effective treatment of the topic,
including some understanding of
the target culture and the student’s
own or another community.

•

Fully understandable, with
ease and clarity of expression;
occasional errors do not
impede comprehensibility
Varied and appropriate
vocabulary and idiomatic
language
Accuracy and variety in
grammar, syntax, and usage,
with few errors
Mostly consistent use of
register appropriate for the
presentation

Pronunciation, intonation, and
pacing make the response
generally comprehensible;
errors occasionally impede
comprehensibility
• Clarificationorself-correction
(if present) sometimes
improves comprehensibility
Scoring note: A response that
does not explicitly compare may
earn a score of 3 if it provides a
suitable treatment of the topic,
including a basic understanding of
the target culture and the student’s
own or another community.

•

•

•

Pronunciation, intonation, and
pacing make the response
comprehensible; errors do not
impede comprehensibility

Clarificationorself-correction
(if present) improves
comprehensibility
Scoring note: A response that
does not explicitly compare cannot
earn a score of 5.
•

continued on next page
AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Scoring Guidelines V.1 | 179
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

0: UNACCEPTABLE
•
•
•
•

Mere restatement of language from the prompt

Clearly does not respond to the prompt; completely irrelevant to the topic
“I don’t know,” “I don’t understand,” or equivalent in English
Clearly responds to the prompt in English

NR (No Response): BLANK(noresponse,althoughrecordingequipmentisfunctioning)
Clarification Notes:
•
•

The term “community” can refer to something as large as a continent or as small as a family unit.

The phrase “target culture” can refer to any community, large or small, associated with the target language.

AP French Language and Culture Course and Exam Description

Scoring Guidelines V.1 | 180
Return to Table of Contents
© 2024 College Board

collegeboard.org

© 2024 College Board.      00762-125

